

2025/07/04
======================================



.. _ubiquitous:

==========
Ubiquitous
==========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/juːˈbɪkwɪtəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Found everywhere; very common or widespread.

**What it really means**: If something is "**ubiquitous**," it means you see or find it absolutely everywhere. It's so common that it seems to be present in all places at the same time.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe things that are extremely common or present throughout a large area or in many different situations.
    * **Common phrases**: "**ubiquitous** presence," "**ubiquitous** technology," "**ubiquitous** advertising."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Smartphones have become **ubiquitous** in modern society." (They are found everywhere.)
        * "Fast-food restaurants are **ubiquitous** in most major cities." (Very common.)
        * "The sound of traffic is **ubiquitous** in urban areas." (Present everywhere.)

**Synonyms**: Omnipresent, pervasive, widespread, everywhere, common, universal.
**Opposite words**: Rare, scarce, uncommon, localized, limited.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *ubīque* (everywhere).




.. _mitigate:

========
Mitigate
========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɪtɪɡeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To make something less severe, serious, or painful.

**What it really means**: To "**mitigate**" means to reduce the harmfulness or unpleasantness of a situation, problem, or impact. It's about taking action to lessen the negative effects, often in a formal or planned way. It's very similar to "**alleviate**" but often implies a more active effort to reduce risk or damage.

**When to use it**: Use it when discussing actions taken to reduce the negative impact of something.
    * **Common phrases**: "**mitigate** risk," "**mitigate** the effects," "**mitigate** damage," "**mitigate** climate change."
    * **Examples**:
        * "New building codes aim to **mitigate** the damage caused by earthquakes." (Lessen the damage.)
        * "Wearing a helmet can **mitigate** the risk of head injury." (Reduce the risk.)
        * "Companies are trying to **mitigate** their carbon footprint." (Reduce their environmental impact.)

**Synonyms**: Alleviate, lessen, reduce, diminish, soften, ease, weaken, ameliorate.
**Opposite words**: Aggravate, exacerbate, worsen, intensify, increase.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *mitigare* (to soften, make mild), from *mitis* (soft, mild).


.. _proliferate:

============
Proliferate
============

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prəˈlɪfəreɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To increase rapidly in number or amount; to spread quickly.

**What it really means**: To "**proliferate**" means to grow or multiply very quickly, often to an undesirable extent. It suggests a rapid and widespread increase, like cells dividing or rumors spreading.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is increasing or spreading very fast.
    * **Common phrases**: "weapons **proliferate**," "rumors **proliferate**," "cells **proliferate**," "problems **proliferate**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Concerns are growing as nuclear weapons continue to **proliferate**." (Increase rapidly.)
        * "Online, misinformation can **proliferate** at an alarming rate." (Spread quickly.)
        * "After the heavy rains, mosquitoes began to **proliferate**." (Increase rapidly in number.)

**Synonyms**: Multiply, reproduce, spread, burgeon, mushroom, escalate, increase.
**Opposite words**: Decrease, diminish, decline, shrink, dwindle.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *proles* (offspring) + *ferre* (to bear).


.. _sustainable:

===========
Sustainable
===========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈsteɪnəbl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be maintained at a certain rate or level; causing little or no damage to the environment and therefore able to continue for a long time.

**What it really means**: "**Sustainable**" describes something that can continue over a long period without depleting resources or causing harm, especially to the environment. It implies long-term viability and often refers to practices that meet present needs without compromising future generations.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about practices, development, or resources that can last for a long time without negative consequences.
    * **Common phrases**: "**sustainable** development," "**sustainable** energy," "**sustainable** living," "**sustainable** future."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Many countries are investing in **sustainable** energy sources like solar and wind power." (Energy that can be maintained long-term.)
        * "Eating locally grown food is a more **sustainable** way to live." (Environmentally friendly and long-lasting.)
        * "The company adopted **sustainable** business practices to reduce waste." (Practices that can continue without harm.)

**Synonyms**: Viable, enduring, long-lasting, ecological, environmentally friendly, renewable.
**Opposite words**: Unsustainable, temporary, harmful, destructive, finite.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sustinere* (to hold up, support).


.. _controversial:

=============
Controversial
=============

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌkɒntrəˈvɜːrʃl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Causing a lot of public discussion, disagreement, or argument.

**What it really means**: "**Controversial**" describes something that causes strong differences of opinion, often leading to public debate or argument. It's a topic or issue about which people have very different and often opposing views.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe topics, decisions, or people that cause a lot of debate and disagreement.
    * **Common phrases**: "**controversial** issue," "**controversial** decision," "**controversial** figure," "highly **controversial**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The government's new tax policy proved to be highly **controversial**." (Caused a lot of public disagreement.)
        * "He is a **controversial** artist, known for his shocking works." (Someone who causes strong opinions.)
        * "The topic of climate change remains **controversial** for some people." (Still debated.)

**Synonyms**: Debatable, disputed, contentious, arguable, divisive, vexed.
**Opposite words**: Undisputed, agreed upon, accepted, non-controversial.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *controversus* (turned against, disputed).


.. _resilience:

===========
Resilience
===========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈzɪliəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The ability to recover quickly from difficulties; toughness.

**What it really means**: "**Resilience**" is the quality of being able to bounce back, adapt, and recover from stress, hardship, or change. It's about strength and flexibility in the face of adversity, allowing one to return to a good state or even grow stronger.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the ability of people, systems, or materials to recover from setbacks.
    * **Common phrases**: "emotional **resilience**," "economic **resilience**," "build **resilience**," "remarkable **resilience**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The community showed incredible **resilience** after the natural disaster." (Recovered quickly.)
        * "Building mental **resilience** helps people cope with stress." (Ability to recover mentally.)
        * "The country's economy demonstrated strong **resilience** during the global downturn." (Ability to recover economically.)

**Synonyms**: Durability, adaptability, flexibility, toughness, robustness, grit, fortitude.
**Opposite words**: Fragility, vulnerability, weakness, susceptibility.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *resilire* (to leap back, rebound).


.. _detrimental:

===========
Detrimental
===========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdɛtrɪˈmɛntl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Causing harm or damage; harmful.

**What it really means**: "**Detrimental**" describes something that causes harm, injury, or loss. It has a negative effect and is damaging to something or someone. It's a formal way of saying "harmful."

**When to use it**: Use it to describe things that have a negative or damaging effect.
    * **Common phrases**: "**detrimental** to health," "**detrimental** effect," "**detrimental** impact."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Smoking is highly **detrimental** to your health." (Very harmful.)
        * "The new policy had a **detrimental** effect on small businesses." (A damaging effect.)
        * "Lack of sleep can be **detrimental** to academic performance." (Can harm performance.)

**Synonyms**: Harmful, damaging, injurious, disadvantageous, adverse, negative, destructive.
**Opposite words**: Beneficial, advantageous, helpful, positive, constructive.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *detrimentum* (a rubbing off, loss, damage).


.. _cohesive:

========
Cohesive
========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəʊˈhiːsɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Sticking together well; forming a united whole.

**What it really means**: "**Cohesive**" describes something whose parts are well-connected and work together smoothly, forming a unified and strong whole. It implies a sense of unity, togetherness, and logical connection.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe groups, ideas, or texts that are well-organized and unified.
    * **Common phrases**: "**cohesive** team," "**cohesive** argument," "**cohesive** society," "**cohesive** unit."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The new manager helped build a more **cohesive** team." (A team that works well together.)
        * "Her essay presented a **cohesive** argument with clear points." (A well-connected and logical argument.)
        * "A strong sense of shared values helps create a **cohesive** community." (A united community.)

**Synonyms**: Unified, united, integrated, connected, consistent, coherent, well-knit.
**Opposite words**: Disjointed, fragmented, disorganized, incoherent, divided, scattered.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *cohaerere* (to stick together).


.. _paradox:

========
Paradox
========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpærədɒks/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A statement or situation that seems impossible or contradictory but is actually true or makes sense in some way.

**What it really means**: A "**paradox**" is a statement or situation that appears to go against common sense or to contradict itself, yet it might contain a deeper truth or be logically sound upon closer examination. It's often surprising or thought-provoking.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe situations or statements that seem contradictory but have a hidden truth.
    * **Common phrases**: "a strange **paradox**," "the **paradox** of," "living **paradox**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The statement 'I am lying' is a classic **paradox**." (It contradicts itself.)
        * "He was a living **paradox**, both extremely shy and incredibly charismatic." (Someone who embodies contradictions.)

**Synonyms**: Contradiction, anomaly, enigma, puzzle, irony.
**Opposite words**: Consistency, straightforwardness, clarity, obviousness.
**Where it comes from**: From Greek *paradoxos* (contrary to expectation, incredible).



.. _ethical:

========
Ethical
========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɛθɪkl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Relating to moral principles; morally good or correct.

**What it really means**: "**Ethical**" describes what is considered **right or wrong in terms of conduct and morality**. It pertains to principles that govern behavior, decisions, and actions, particularly in a professional, social, or philosophical context. It's about *how* a person or action aligns with accepted standards of good conduct.

**When to use it**: Use it when discussing moral choices, good behavior, or standards of conduct.
    * **Common phrases**: "**ethical** behavior," "**ethical** dilemma," "**ethical** principles," "**ethical** standards."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Doctors must always adhere to strict **ethical** guidelines." (Follow strict moral rules.)
        * "It was an **ethical** dilemma: should he tell the truth and risk his job, or lie to protect his friend?" (A difficult moral choice.)
        * "The company prides itself on its **ethical** sourcing of materials." (Sourcing materials in a morally good way.)

**Synonyms**: Moral, righteous, principled, virtuous, honorable, just, proper, upright.
**Opposite words**: Unethical, immoral, dishonest, corrupt, wrong, improper.
**Where it comes from**: From Greek *ethikos* (relating to character), from *ethos* (custom, character).


.. _imminent:

==========
Imminent
==========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɪmɪnənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: About to happen very soon.

**What it really means**: "**Imminent**" describes an event that is very close to happening, often something negative or threatening. It creates a sense of immediate expectation or even urgency.

**When to use it**: Use it for events that are expected to occur very soon.
    * **Common phrases**: "**imminent** danger," "**imminent** threat," "**imminent** arrival," "**imminent** collapse."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The dark clouds suggested an **imminent** storm." (A storm about to happen.)
        * "The company faced **imminent** bankruptcy if it didn't find new investors." (Bankruptcy about to happen.)
        * "We received news of their **imminent** arrival." (Their arrival very soon.)

**Synonyms**: Forthcoming, impending, approaching, looming, close at hand, about to happen.
**Opposite words**: Distant, far-off, unlikely, remote.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *imminere* (to overhang, project; be near).


.. _altruistic:

===========
Altruistic
===========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌæltruˈɪstɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Showing a selfless concern for the well-being of others; unselfish.

**What it really means**: "**Altruistic**" describes actions or people who are motivated purely by a desire to help others, without expecting any personal reward or benefit. It's about putting others' needs before one's own.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe acts of kindness or people who are unselfish and caring.
    * **Common phrases**: "**altruistic** act," "**altruistic** motives," "**altruistic** behavior."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Donating a kidney to a stranger is a truly **altruistic** act." (A selfless act.)
        * "Her **altruistic** nature led her to volunteer for many charities." (Unselfish nature.)
        * "The organization was founded on purely **altruistic** principles." (Principles based on helping others.)

**Synonyms**: Selfless, unselfish, benevolent, philanthropic, charitable, humanitarian.
**Opposite words**: Selfish, egoistic, self-centered, greedy, narcissistic.
**Where it comes from**: From French *altruisme* (altruism), coined from Latin *alter* (other).


.. _disparity:

==========
Disparity
==========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈspærəti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A great difference between two or more things, especially when it's unfair or unexpected.

**What it really means**: A "**disparity**" is a noticeable and often troubling difference or inequality between things that should be similar or equal. It highlights an imbalance or inconsistency, particularly in areas like income, opportunities, or treatment.

**When to use it**: Use it to point out significant differences or inequalities.
    * **Common phrases**: "income **disparity**," "wage **disparity**," "gender **disparity**," "wide **disparity**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "There is a growing **disparity** between the rich and the poor in many countries." (A great difference in wealth.)
        * "The report highlighted the **disparity** in educational opportunities between urban and rural areas." (The inequality.)
        * "They are working to reduce the wage **disparity** between men and women." (The difference in pay.)

**Synonyms**: Inequality, difference, imbalance, discrepancy, divergence, gap, contrast.
**Opposite words**: Equality, similarity, balance, parity, consistency.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *disparitas* (unequalness), from *dispar* (unequal).


.. _exacerbate:

============
Exacerbate
============

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪɡˈzæsərbeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To make a problem, bad situation, or negative feeling even worse.

**What it really means**: To "**exacerbate**" means to make an already bad situation, problem, or pain even more severe or intense. It's about aggravating or worsening something.

**When to use it**: Use it when something makes a negative situation worse.
    * **Common phrases**: "**exacerbate** a problem," "**exacerbate** tensions," "**exacerbate** symptoms," "**exacerbate** inequality."
    * **Examples**:
        * "His angry comments only served to **exacerbate** the already tense situation." (Made it even worse.)
        * "Lack of sleep can **exacerbate** stress and anxiety." (Make stress and anxiety more severe.)
        * "The economic crisis was **exacerbated** by the drought." (Made worse by the drought.)

**Synonyms**: Worsen, aggravate, intensify, inflame, heighten, compound, worsen.
**Opposite words**: Alleviate, mitigate, ease, relieve, improve, lessen.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *exacerbare* (to irritate, provoke), from *ex-* (out) + *acerbus* (harsh, bitter).


.. _pragmatic:

==========
Pragmatic
==========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/præɡˈmætɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Dealing with problems in a practical and sensible way, rather than by following theories or ideas.

**What it really means**: "**Pragmatic**" describes an approach that focuses on practical results and real-world solutions, rather than abstract theories or ideals. A pragmatic person is realistic and concerned with what works effectively.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe practical, realistic approaches or people.
    * **Common phrases**: "**pragmatic** approach," "**pragmatic** solution," "**pragmatic** decision," "be **pragmatic**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She took a **pragmatic** approach to solving the complex issue, focusing on what was achievable." (A practical and sensible approach.)
        * "The company needs a more **pragmatic** business strategy to survive." (A realistic strategy that works.)
        * "He's a very **pragmatic** leader; he always considers the practical consequences." (Realistic and sensible.)

**Synonyms**: Practical, realistic, sensible, down-to-earth, utilitarian, effective, no-nonsense.
**Opposite words**: Idealistic, theoretical, impractical, unrealistic, visionary (in a less practical sense).
**Where it comes from**: From Greek *pragmatikos* (relating to action, practical).


.. _demographic:

===========
Demographic
===========

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdɛməˈɡræfɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word), *Noun* (countable, often plural)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Adjective) Relating to the study of population and groups within it (like age, gender, income).
    2.  (Noun, often plural "demographics") The characteristics of a population, such as age, gender, income, education, etc.

**What it really means**: "**Demographic**" refers to the statistical data and characteristics of a population or a specific group within it. It's about measurable features of people that help us understand populations.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about population characteristics or groups defined by those characteristics.
    * **Common phrases**: "**demographic** changes," "**demographic** data," "target **demographic**," "shifting **demographics**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The country is facing significant **demographic** changes, with an aging population." (Changes in population characteristics.)
        * "Marketing companies study **demographics** to understand their target customers." (Population characteristics like age, income.)
        * "The report provides a detailed **demographic** analysis of the region." (Analysis of the population's features.)

**Synonyms**: Population (characteristics), statistical, societal, sociological.
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposite, as it's a descriptive term for population data).
**Where it comes from**: From Greek *dēmos* (people) + *graphia* (writing, description).


.. _globalization:

========================
Globalization
========================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɡləʊbəlaɪˈzeɪʃn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The process by which businesses or other organizations develop international influence or start operating on an international scale; the increasing connection and interdependence of the world's economies, cultures, and populations.

**What it really means**: "**Globalization**" is the process of increasing worldwide connection and integration. It involves the growing interdependence of countries through the flow of goods, services, capital, technology, and culture across borders. It makes the world feel "smaller" and more interconnected.

**When to use it**: Use it when discussing the worldwide spread of ideas, trade, or culture, and the increasing interconnectedness of nations.
    * **Common phrases**: "impact of **globalization**," "economic **globalization**," "cultural **globalization**," "driven by **globalization**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "**Globalization** has led to cheaper goods but also increased competition for local businesses." (Worldwide economic connection.)
        * "The internet has greatly accelerated the pace of **globalization**." (Increased worldwide connection.)
        * "Concerns about the negative effects of **globalization** often include job losses in some countries." (The process of international integration.)

**Synonyms**: Internationalization, worldwide integration, global interconnectedness.
**Opposite words**: Isolationism, protectionism, localization, fragmentation.
**Where it comes from**: From "global" + "-ization" (suffix for process).
