2025/07/08
======================================

.. _fetter:

================================================================================
Fetter
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɛtər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A chain or shackle for the feet.
    2.  (Verb) To restrict or restrain someone or something in an unfair or undesirable way.

**What it really means**: A "**fetter**" is literally a chain on the feet, used to restrict movement. Figuratively, it means to limit or hold back someone's freedom, progress, or ability. It implies a sense of being tied down or unfairly controlled.

**When to use it**: Use it for physical restraints or, more commonly, for things that limit freedom or progress.
    * **Common phrases**: "mental **fetters**," "economic **fetters**," "**fetter** progress."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The prisoner was held in **fetters**." (Physical chains.)
        * "Old traditions can often **fetter** innovation." (Limit innovation.)
        * "She felt the **fetters** of societal expectations holding her back." (Limitations.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Shackle, chain, restraint. (Verb) Restrain, restrict, hinder, impede, curb, tie down.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Freedom, liberation. (Verb) Free, liberate, unleash, enable, facilitate.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *feter* (chain for the feet).


.. _shackle:

================================================================================
Shackle
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈʃækl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A metal link, ring, or chain used to fasten or secure something, especially a prisoner's wrists or ankles.
    2.  (Verb) To chain or fasten with a shackle; to restrain or limit.

**What it really means**: A "**shackle**" is a physical restraint, like a handcuff or ankle chain. Figuratively, it means to severely limit someone's freedom, actions, or potential, making them unable to move forward easily. It implies a strong and often oppressive form of restriction.

**When to use it**: Use it for physical chains or for severe limitations on freedom/action.
    * **Common phrases**: "in **shackles**," "**shackle** creativity," "free from **shackles**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The escaped convict had managed to remove his **shackles**." (Metal restraints.)
        * "Bureaucracy can **shackle** economic growth." (Severely limit growth.)
        * "She fought to break free from the **shackles** of poverty." (Severe limitations.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Fetter, chain, handcuff, restraint. (Verb) Fetter, chain, restrain, bind, restrict, impede.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Freedom, liberation. (Verb) Free, liberate, unleash, enable.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *sceacel* (shackle).


.. _restrain:

================================================================================
Restrain
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈstreɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To prevent someone or something from doing something; to hold back or control.

**What it really means**: To "**restrain**" means to keep someone or something under control, preventing them from acting freely or going too far. It can involve physical force, but often refers to controlling emotions, actions, or growth.

**When to use it**: Use it when something or someone is being held back or controlled.
    * **Common phrases**: "**restrain** anger," "**restrain** a dog," "**restrain** spending," "**restrain** oneself."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The police officer had to **restrain** the angry crowd." (Hold them back.)
        * "She managed to **restrain** her laughter during the serious speech." (Hold back her emotion.)
        * "The government tried to **restrain** rising inflation." (Control or limit it.)

**Synonyms**: Control, curb, hold back, check, limit, restrict, suppress, hinder.
**Opposite words**: Unleash, release, liberate, encourage, allow.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *restraindre*, from Latin *restringere* (to tie back, confine).


.. _wrist:

================================================================================
Wrist
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪst/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The joint connecting the hand with the forearm.

**What it really means**: The "**wrist**" is the part of your body where your hand joins your arm. It's a flexible joint that allows your hand to move in many directions.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about this specific body part.
    * **Common phrases**: "**wrist** watch," "sprained **wrist**," "break one's **wrist**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He wears a watch on his **wrist**." (The joint between hand and arm.)
        * "She fell and injured her **wrist**." (The joint.)
        * "The doctor examined his **wrist** for a fracture." (The joint.)

**Synonyms**: (No direct synonyms, as it's a specific body part).
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites).
**Where it comes from**: Old English *wrist*, related to "wrest" (to twist).


.. _ankle:

================================================================================
Ankle
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈæŋkl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The joint connecting the foot with the leg.

**What it really means**: The "**ankle**" is the part of your body where your foot joins your lower leg. It's a joint that allows your foot to move up and down and side to side.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about this specific body part.
    * **Common phrases**: "sprained **ankle**," "**ankle** boots," "twisted **ankle**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She twisted her **ankle** while playing basketball." (The joint.)
        * "He wears socks that cover his **ankles**." (The joint.)
        * "The doctor checked his **ankle** for swelling." (The joint.)

**Synonyms**: (No direct synonyms, as it's a specific body part).
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites).
**Where it comes from**: Old English *ancle* (ankle).


.. _handcuff:

================================================================================
Handcuff
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhændkʌf/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, often plural), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A pair of metal rings joined by a short chain, used to fasten a prisoner's wrists together.
    2.  (Verb) To put handcuffs on someone.

**What it really means**: "**Handcuffs**" are a device used by police to tie someone's wrists together, limiting their movement. To "**handcuff**" someone means to put these devices on them, or figuratively, to severely restrict their actions or freedom.

**When to use it**: Use it for physical restraints on wrists or for severe restrictions.
    * **Common phrases**: "in **handcuffs**," "**handcuff** someone," "economic **handcuffs**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The police put **handcuffs** on the suspect." (Metal restraints.)
        * "He was led away in **handcuffs**." (Restrained.)
        * "The strict contract seemed to **handcuff** the artist's creativity." (Severely restrict.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Shackle, manacle, restraint. (Verb) Shackle, restrain, bind, tie.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Freedom. (Verb) Free, release, liberate.
**Where it comes from**: From "hand" + "cuff" (meaning a band or strap).


.. _pursue:

================================================================================
Pursue
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈsuː/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To follow or chase someone or something; to try to achieve a goal or interest over a period of time.

**What it really means**: To "**pursue**" means to follow something or someone, either physically (like chasing) or by working towards a goal. It implies continuous effort and dedication to achieve something or catch something.

**When to use it**: Use it for chasing or for working towards a long-term goal.
    * **Common phrases**: "**pursue** a dream," "**pursue** a career," "**pursue** happiness," "**pursue** a suspect."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The police car began to **pursue** the speeding vehicle." (Chase.)
        * "She decided to **pursue** a career in medicine." (Work towards.)
        * "Many people come to this city to **pursue** their artistic ambitions." (Try to achieve.)

**Synonyms**: Chase, follow, track, seek, strive for, aim for, go after, undertake.
**Opposite words**: Abandon, give up, avoid, flee, retreat.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *poursuivre*, from Latin *prosequi* (to follow up, pursue).


.. _pursuit:

================================================================================
Pursuit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈsuːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of pursuing someone or something; an activity that you spend time doing, often as a hobby.

**What it really means**: "**Pursuit**" is the noun form of "pursue." It refers to the act of chasing or following, or the ongoing effort to achieve a goal or engage in an activity. It can be a chase, a quest, or a hobby.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of chasing or a long-term activity/goal.
    * **Common phrases**: "in **pursuit** of," "hot **pursuit**," "leisure **pursuits**," "academic **pursuits**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The police were in hot **pursuit** of the bank robbers." (Chasing them.)
        * "His main **pursuit** in life was the search for knowledge." (His main goal/activity.)
        * "Reading and gardening are her favorite leisure **pursuits**." (Hobbies.)

**Synonyms**: Chase, quest, search, endeavor, hobby, activity, occupation.
**Opposite words**: Retreat, abandonment, surrender, idleness.
**Where it comes from**: From the verb "pursue."


.. _pursuant:

================================================================================
Pursuant
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈsuːənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (formal), *Adverb* (formal)
* **Simple Meaning**: (Formal) According to; in accordance with.

**What it really means**: "**Pursuant**" is a formal word, mostly used in legal or official contexts, meaning "following" or "in agreement with" a rule, law, or request. It indicates that an action is being done because of, or in compliance with, something previously stated.

**When to use it**: Use it in formal writing to indicate compliance with rules or agreements.
    * **Common phrases**: "**pursuant to** a law," "**pursuant to** an agreement," "**pursuant to** your request."
    * **Examples**:
        * "**Pursuant to** the contract, payment is due within 30 days." (According to the contract.)
        * "The committee acted **pursuant to** the new regulations." (In accordance with the regulations.)
        * "A meeting will be held **pursuant to** your recent inquiry." (Following your inquiry.)

**Synonyms**: According to, in accordance with, in compliance with, following, consequent upon.
**Opposite words**: Contrary to, in defiance of.
**Where it comes from**: From Old French *poursuivant* (following), present participle of *poursuivre*.


.. _distinct:

================================================================================
Distinct
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstɪŋkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Clearly separate and different; easily seen, heard, or recognized.

**What it really means**: "**Distinct**" means something is clearly separate from others, or that it is very clear and easy to notice. It emphasizes individuality, clarity, or a noticeable difference.

**When to use it**: Use it when things are clearly separate or easily noticeable.
    * **Common phrases**: "**distinct** advantage," "**distinct** possibility," "**distinct** smell," "**distinct** features."
    * **Examples**:
        * "There are three **distinct** types of apples in the basket." (Clearly separate.)
        * "The painting had a very **distinct** style." (Easily recognized.)
        * "I heard a **distinct** knocking sound at the door." (Clearly audible.)
        * "The two cultures have **distinct** differences." (Clear and separate differences.)

**Synonyms**: Separate, different, clear, obvious, noticeable, recognizable, unique, definite.
**Opposite words**: Indistinct, unclear, vague, similar, identical, blended.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *distinctus* (distinguished, separate), past participle of *distinguere*.


.. _recollection:

================================================================================
Recollection
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌrɛkəˈlɛkʃn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of remembering something; a memory.

**What it really means**: A "**recollection**" is the process of recalling a memory, or the memory itself. It often implies a conscious effort to remember something, or a memory that comes back to mind.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about remembering past events or specific memories.
    * **Common phrases**: "vague **recollection**," "clear **recollection**," "beyond **recollection**," "to the best of my **recollection**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "To the best of my **recollection**, I locked the door before I left." (As far as I remember.)
        * "She had no **recollection** of the accident." (No memory of it.)
        * "His early childhood **recollections** were mostly happy ones." (Memories.)

**Synonyms**: Memory, remembrance, recall, reminiscence, anamnesis.
**Opposite words**: Forgetting, oblivion, amnesia.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *recollectio* (a gathering again), from *recollere* (to gather again, remember).


.. _stir:

================================================================================
Stir
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/stɜːr/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To move a spoon or other implement around in a liquid or mixture to mix it.
    2.  (Verb) To move slightly or cause to move.
    3.  (Verb) To cause strong emotion or excitement in someone.
    4.  (Noun) An act of stirring; a commotion or excitement.

**What it really means**: To "**stir**" means to cause movement or agitation, whether physically (like stirring a drink) or emotionally (like stirring feelings). It implies causing something to become active or mixed.

**When to use it**: Use it for mixing, causing movement, or arousing emotions.
    * **Common phrases**: "**stir** coffee," "**stir** up trouble," "**stir** emotions," "a slight **stir**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Please **stir** your tea before you drink it." (Mix.)
        * "The wind began to **stir** the leaves on the trees." (Cause to move.)
        * "His powerful speech **stirred** the crowd to action." (Caused excitement.)
        * "There was a slight **stir** in the audience when the lights went out." (A small commotion.)

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Mix, agitate, move, rouse, arouse, excite, provoke, awaken. (Noun) Commotion, fuss, excitement.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Settle, calm, suppress, quiet.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *styrian* (to move, agitate).


.. _wonder:

================================================================================
Wonder
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈwʌndər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A feeling of surprise and admiration caused by something beautiful, unexpected, or impressive.
    2.  (Verb) To feel curiosity or doubt; to think about something with curiosity.

**What it really means**: "**Wonder**" is a strong feeling of amazement and admiration, often mixed with curiosity. As a verb, it means to be curious or to think about something with a sense of awe or uncertainty.

**When to use it**: Use it for feelings of amazement or when you are curious about something.
    * **Common phrases**: "filled with **wonder**," "no **wonder**," "**wonder** why," "a **wonder** of the world."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The children gazed at the starry sky with **wonder**." (A feeling of amazement.)
        * "I **wonder** if it will rain tomorrow." (I am curious.)
        * "It's a **wonder** that no one was seriously hurt in the accident." (It's surprising.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Awe, amazement, marvel, astonishment. (Verb) Ponder, muse, question, speculate.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Indifference, boredom, apathy. (Verb) Know, understand.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *wundor* (a marvel, miracle).


.. _wander:

================================================================================
Wander
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈwɒndər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To walk or move in a relaxed or aimless way; to go from place to place without a clear direction.

**What it really means**: To "**wander**" means to move around without a specific destination or purpose, often in a relaxed or casual manner. It can also mean for thoughts or conversations to lose focus.

**When to use it**: Use it for aimless walking or for thoughts/conversations losing focus.
    * **Common phrases**: "**wander** around," "**wander** off," "mind **wanders**," "**wander** aimlessly."
    * **Examples**:
        * "We spent the afternoon **wandering** through the old town." (Walking aimlessly.)
        * "Don't **wander** too far from the group." (Go too far away without direction.)
        * "My mind tends to **wander** during long lectures." (Lose focus.)

**Synonyms**: Roam, stroll, meander, stray, drift, ramble, peregrinate.
**Opposite words**: Go directly, head for, stay, focus.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *wandrian* (to wander).


.. _ponder:

================================================================================
Ponder
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpɒndər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To think about something carefully and deeply for a period of time.

**What it really means**: To "**ponder**" means to consider something thoroughly and thoughtfully. It implies a deep, quiet reflection, often on a serious or important matter, weighing different aspects before reaching a conclusion or simply meditating on the idea.

**When to use it**: Use it when someone is thinking very deeply and carefully.
    * **Common phrases**: "**ponder** a question," "**ponder** the meaning of life," "**ponder** over."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She spent the evening **pondering** her next career move." (Thinking deeply about it.)
        * "He liked to **ponder** the mysteries of the universe." (Think deeply about.)
        * "The committee will **ponder** the proposal before making a decision." (Consider it carefully.)

**Synonyms**: Consider, reflect on, deliberate, muse, contemplate, meditate on, think about.
**Opposite words**: Ignore, disregard, dismiss, rush.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *ponderer*, from Latin *ponderare* (to weigh, consider).


.. _ponderous:

================================================================================
Ponderous
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpɒndərəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  Slow and clumsy because of great weight.
    2.  Dull, serious, and boring; excessively solemn.

**What it really means**: "**Ponderous**" describes something that is heavy and moves slowly or awkwardly. Figuratively, it describes something (like writing, a speech, or a person's style) that is very serious, dull, and lacking lightness or grace, often because it's too formal or overthought.

**When to use it**: Use it for heavy, slow movement, or for dull, overly serious style.
    * **Common phrases**: "**ponderous** steps," "**ponderous** prose," "**ponderous** speech."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The elephant moved with **ponderous** steps across the plain." (Slow and heavy.)
        * "The professor's lecture was so **ponderous** that many students fell asleep." (Dull and boring.)
        * "He delivered a long and **ponderous** speech that failed to inspire anyone." (Overly serious and dull.)

**Synonyms**: (For weight) Heavy, bulky, clumsy, slow. (For style) Dull, tedious, monotonous, laborious, solemn, grave.
**Opposite words**: (For weight) Light, agile, nimble. (For style) Lively, engaging, lighthearted, entertaining.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *ponderosus* (heavy), from *pondus* (weight).


.. _passage:

================================================================================
Passage
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpæsɪdʒ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  An act of moving from one place to another; a journey.
    2.  A narrow way allowing access between two areas; a corridor.
    3.  A short section of a book, piece of music, or speech.

**What it really means**: A "**passage**" is a movement from one point to another, a physical path, or a specific part of a text or piece of music. It can be a journey, a hallway, or a quote.

**When to use it**: Use it for journeys, physical paths, or sections of text/music.
    * **Common phrases**: "safe **passage**," "secret **passage**," "reading **passage**," "rite of **passage**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The birds make a long **passage** south for the winter." (A journey.)
        * "The house had a secret **passage** behind the bookshelf." (A hidden path.)
        * "Please read the following **passage** and answer the questions." (A section of text.)
        * "The bill's **passage** through parliament was slow." (The process of moving through.)

**Synonyms**: (For movement) Journey, voyage, transit, movement. (For path) Corridor, aisle, hallway, alleyway. (For text) Excerpt, extract, section, paragraph.
**Opposite words**: (For movement) Stoppage, stagnation.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *passage*, from Latin *passus* (step).



.. _confine:

================================================================================
Confine
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈfaɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (plural, informal)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To keep or restrict someone or something within certain limits or boundaries.
    2.  (Noun, plural "confines") The boundaries or limits of a space or area.

**What it really means**: To "**confine**" means to limit or keep something within a specific space or within certain boundaries. It implies restriction, either physically (like keeping someone in a room) or figuratively (like limiting a discussion to a specific topic).

**When to use it**: Use it for restricting within limits, either physically or figuratively.
    * **Common phrases**: "**confine** to bed," "**confine** oneself to," "**confine** a discussion," "within the **confines**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The doctor advised her to **confine** herself to bed for a few days." (Stay in bed.)
        * "Let's **confine** our discussion to the main topic." (Limit the discussion.)
        * "The wild animals were kept within the **confines** of the zoo." (Boundaries.)

**Synonyms**: Restrict, limit, imprison, enclose, immure, bound, circumscribe.
**Opposite words**: Release, free, liberate, expand, extend.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *confinire* (to border on, limit), from *con-* (together) + *finis* (end, boundary).


.. _prominent:

================================================================================
Prominent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɒmɪnənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Standing out so as to be seen easily; important or famous.

**What it really means**: "**Prominent**" describes something that is very noticeable, either because it sticks out physically, or because it is very important, famous, or easily recognized. It suggests being conspicuous or highly regarded.

**When to use it**: Use it for things that are easily seen/noticed, or for important/famous people/features.
    * **Common phrases**: "**prominent** feature," "**prominent** figure," "**prominent** role," "stand out **prominently**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The mountain peak was a **prominent** landmark on the horizon." (Easily seen.)
        * "She played a **prominent** role in the community." (An important role.)
        * "He is a **prominent** lawyer in the city." (Famous and respected.)

**Synonyms**: Conspicuous, noticeable, obvious, striking, outstanding, important, leading, famous, distinguished.
**Opposite words**: Inconspicuous, hidden, obscure, minor, unimportant, unknown.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *prominere* (to project, jut out).


.. _unsettled:

================================================================================
Unsettled
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ʌnˈsɛtld/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  Not yet decided or resolved; uncertain.
    2.  Feeling anxious, uneasy, or disturbed.
    3.  (Of weather) Changeable or unstable.

**What it really means**: "**Unsettled**" describes a situation, feeling, or condition that is not stable, decided, or calm. It implies uncertainty, anxiety, or a lack of resolution.

**When to use it**: Use it for unresolved issues, anxious feelings, or unstable conditions.
    * **Common phrases**: "**unsettled** issues," "**unsettled** feeling," "**unsettled** weather," "**unsettled** mind."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The future of the company remains **unsettled**." (Not yet decided.)
        * "He felt an **unsettled** feeling after hearing the news." (Anxious or uneasy.)
        * "The weather was **unsettled**, with periods of rain and sunshine." (Changeable.)

**Synonyms**: Undecided, unresolved, uncertain, unstable, restless, uneasy, anxious, disturbed, turbulent.
**Opposite words**: Settled, resolved, certain, stable, calm, easy, peaceful.
**Where it comes from**: From "un-" (not) + "settled."


.. _indulge:

================================================================================
Indulge
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈdʌldʒ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To allow oneself to enjoy the pleasure of something; to allow someone to have or do what they want.

**What it really means**: To "**indulge**" means to allow yourself (or someone else) to have something enjoyable, often something that might be considered a luxury or a treat, or to give in to a desire. It implies allowing pleasure or satisfying a wish.

**When to use it**: Use it for allowing pleasures or satisfying desires.
    * **Common phrases**: "**indulge** in," "**indulge** oneself," "**indulge** a child," "guilty **indulgence**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She decided to **indulge** in a long, relaxing bath." (Allow herself to enjoy.)
        * "Parents sometimes **indulge** their children too much." (Allow them to have what they want.)
        * "He couldn't resist the urge to **indulge** in a slice of chocolate cake." (Give in to the desire.)

**Synonyms**: Pamper, spoil, gratify, satisfy, allow, permit, luxuriate in.
**Opposite words**: Deny, deprive, restrain, curb, abstain, forgo.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *indulgere* (to be kind to, yield to).


.. _triumph:

================================================================================
Triumph
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtraɪʌmf/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A great victory or achievement; the feeling of joy after a victory.
    2.  (Verb) To achieve a great victory or success.

**What it really means**: "**Triumph**" is a significant success, victory, or achievement, often after a struggle. It also refers to the feeling of great joy and pride that comes with such a victory.

**When to use it**: Use it for major victories, successes, or the joy they bring.
    * **Common phrases**: "a great **triumph**," "win a **triumph**," "**triumph** over," "moment of **triumph**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Winning the championship was a great **triumph** for the team." (A great victory.)
        * "She felt a sense of **triumph** as she crossed the finish line." (Joy after success.)
        * "Good will always **triumph** over evil." (Achieve victory over.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Victory, success, achievement, conquest, jubilation. (Verb) Win, succeed, prevail, conquer, overcome.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Defeat, failure, loss. (Verb) Fail, lose, be defeated.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *triumphus* (triumphal procession, victory celebration).


.. _perceive:

================================================================================
Perceive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈsiːv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To become aware of something through the senses (see, hear, smell, etc.) or to understand or interpret something in a particular way.

**What it really means**: To "**perceive**" means to notice or become aware of something, either through your senses (like seeing or hearing) or by understanding it mentally. It's about how you take in information and interpret it.

**When to use it**: Use it for noticing things with senses or for understanding/interpreting.
    * **Common phrases**: "**perceive** a threat," "**perceive** as," "**perceive** reality."
    * **Examples**:
        * "I could **perceive** a faint smell of smoke in the air." (Notice with senses.)
        * "How do you **perceive** the current economic situation?" (How do you understand/interpret it?)
        * "He was **perceived** as a very honest person." (Understood or seen as.)

**Synonyms**: Discern, recognize, detect, notice, observe, apprehend, understand, interpret, comprehend.
**Opposite words**: Miss, overlook, misunderstand, ignore.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *percipere* (to seize, take in, understand).


.. _percept:

================================================================================
Percept
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpɜːrsɛpt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: An object or idea that is perceived by the senses; an impression.

**What it really means**: A "**percept**" is the raw, basic sensory information that you receive from the world before your brain fully interprets or understands it. It's the initial impression or sensation. This is a highly technical or philosophical term, not common in everyday English.

**When to use it**: Primarily in academic or philosophical discussions about senses and perception.
    * **Examples**:
        * "The visual **percept** of the red apple is distinct from the conceptual understanding of 'apple'." (The raw visual impression.)
        * "Philosophers discuss how raw sensory **percepts** are organized into meaningful experiences." (Basic sensory data.)

**Synonyms**: Sensation, impression, datum (sensory), qualia.
**Opposite words**: Concept, idea, interpretation, understanding.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *perceptum* (a thing perceived), past participle of *percipere*.


.. _perception:

================================================================================
Perception
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈsɛpʃn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The way in which something is regarded, understood, or interpreted; the ability to see, hear, or become aware of something through the senses.

**What it really means**: "**Perception**" is the process of becoming aware of something through your senses, or, more commonly, the way you understand and interpret something. It's your personal view or understanding of reality.

**When to use it**: Use it for how things are understood or seen, or the ability to sense things.
    * **Common phrases**: "public **perception**," "first **impression**," "change **perception**," "sense of **perception**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Public **perception** of the new policy was largely negative." (How the public understood it.)
        * "Her keen **perception** allowed her to notice small details others missed." (Ability to notice.)
        * "There's a common **perception** that healthy food is expensive." (A common belief or understanding.)

**Synonyms**: Impression, understanding, interpretation, insight, awareness, discernment, view, belief.
**Opposite words**: Misconception, misunderstanding, ignorance, blindness.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *perceptio* (a taking, comprehending), from *percipere*.


.. _discharge:

================================================================================
Discharge
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪsˈtʃɑːrdʒ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To allow someone to leave (e.g., from a hospital or prison); to release.
    2.  (Verb) To send out or release (liquid, gas, electricity, etc.).
    3.  (Verb) To perform or fulfill (a duty or obligation).
    4.  (Noun) The act of releasing; something that is released.

**What it really means**: To "**discharge**" means to release or send something out, or to fulfill a duty. It implies a freeing from confinement, a release of contents, or the completion of a responsibility.

**When to use it**: Use it for releasing people/things, sending out substances, or fulfilling duties.
    * **Common phrases**: "**discharge** a patient," "**discharge** duties," "**discharge** a weapon," "electrical **discharge**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The hospital will **discharge** the patient tomorrow." (Allow to leave.)
        * "The factory was fined for **discharging** toxic waste into the river." (Releasing.)
        * "He worked hard to **discharge** his responsibilities." (Fulfill.)
        * "The sudden electrical **discharge** caused a power outage." (Release of electricity.)

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Release, free, dismiss, emit, eject, perform, fulfill. (Noun) Release, emission, outflow, fulfillment.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Admit, hold, retain, absorb, neglect.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *descharger* (to unload), from *des-* (un-) + *charger* (to load).


.. _attire:

================================================================================
Attire
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈtaɪər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) Clothes, especially formal or elegant ones.
    2.  (Verb) To dress someone in a particular type of clothing.

**What it really means**: "**Attire**" refers to clothing, often implying a specific type of dress, especially formal, elegant, or ceremonial. As a verb, it means to dress someone, usually in a grand or specific way.

**When to use it**: Use it for clothing, particularly formal or special outfits, or the act of dressing.
    * **Common phrases**: "formal **attire**," "business **attire**," "dressed in fine **attire**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The invitation specified formal **attire** for the event." (Formal clothes.)
        * "She was dressed in her finest evening **attire**." (Elegant clothing.)
        * "The queen was richly **attired** for the coronation." (Dressed elegantly.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Clothing, clothes, garments, dress, apparel, outfit. (Verb) Dress, clothe, array.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Nudity, undress. (Verb) Undress.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *atirier* (to arrange, dress).


.. _apron:

================================================================================
Apron
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈeɪprən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A protective garment worn over the front of clothes and tied at the back, especially by cooks, waiters, or workers.

**What it really means**: An "**apron**" is a piece of clothing worn over your regular clothes to keep them clean, especially when cooking, cleaning, or working.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about this protective garment.
    * **Common phrases**: "wear an **apron**," "kitchen **apron**," "chef's **apron**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She put on her **apron** before baking the cake." (Protective garment.)
        * "The waiter wore a clean white **apron**." (Protective garment.)
        * "He wiped his hands on his **apron**." (The garment.)

**Synonyms**: (No direct synonyms, as it's a specific item).
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites).
**Where it comes from**: Old French *naperon* (small table-cloth), later reshaped due to misdivision of "a naperon" to "an apron."


.. _distress:

================================================================================
Distress
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstrɛs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) Extreme anxiety, sorrow, or pain.
    2.  (Noun) A state of extreme necessity or misfortune.
    3.  (Verb) To cause someone anxiety, sorrow, or pain.

**What it really means**: "**Distress**" refers to a state of great suffering, either mental (worry, sadness) or physical (pain). It can also mean a serious problem or danger. As a verb, it means to cause this suffering.

**When to use it**: Use it for severe suffering, problems, or causing such suffering.
    * **Common phrases**: "in **distress**," "cause **distress**," "emotional **distress**," "sign of **distress**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The missing child's parents were in great **distress**." (Extreme anxiety/sorrow.)
        * "The ship sent out a signal of **distress**." (Sign of extreme danger.)
        * "The news deeply **distressed** her." (Caused her great sadness.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Anguish, suffering, pain, sorrow, agony, misery, trouble, hardship. (Verb) Upset, trouble, worry, pain, grieve.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Comfort, peace, joy, relief, happiness. (Verb) Comfort, soothe, calm, relieve.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *destrece* (constraint, oppression), from Latin *distringere* (to stretch apart, torment).


.. _mistress:

================================================================================
Mistress
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɪstrɪs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  A woman in a position of authority or control. (Archaic or formal)
    2.  A woman who has a sexual relationship with a married man.
    3.  (Historical) The female head of a household.
    4.  (Historical) A female teacher.

**What it really means**: "**Mistress**" historically referred to a woman in charge of something, like a household or a school. In modern common usage, it most often refers to a woman who is having an affair with a married man.

**When to use it**: Use it carefully due to its primary modern connotation. The historical/formal meanings are less common.
    * **Common phrases**: "school **mistress**" (historical), "the man and his **mistress**" (modern).
    * **Examples**:
        * "The head **mistress** addressed the students." (Head of a school - formal/historical.)
        * "He was secretly meeting his **mistress**." (Woman in an affair.)
        * "She was the **mistress** of the house, managing all affairs." (Historical head of household.)

**Synonyms**: (Historical) Head, manager, teacher. (Modern) Lover, paramour.
**Opposite words**: (Historical) Servant, subordinate. (Modern) Wife.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *maistresse*, feminine of *maistre* (master).


.. _rock:

================================================================================
Rock
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɒk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) The solid mineral material forming part of the surface of the earth and other planets.
    2.  (Noun) A large piece of this material.
    3.  (Verb) To move gently to and fro or from side to side.
    4.  (Verb) To cause to move gently to and fro or from side to side.
    5.  (Informal, Verb) To be excellent or successful.

**What it really means**: "**Rock**" refers to the hard, solid material of the earth. As a verb, it means to move something back and forth gently, or to cause a strong, often surprising, movement or disturbance. Informally, it means to be great.

**When to use it**: Use it for geological material, gentle swaying, or strong impact/success.
    * **Common phrases**: "hard as **rock**," "**rock** and roll," "**rock** the boat," "**rock** a baby."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The mountain was made of solid **rock**." (Geological material.)
        * "She gently **rocked** the baby to sleep." (Moved back and forth.)
        * "The news **rocked** the financial markets." (Caused a strong disturbance.)
        * "That band really knows how to **rock**!" (Informal: be excellent.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Stone, boulder, pebble. (Verb) Sway, swing, roll, wobble, shake, disturb, shock.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Stabilize, steady.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *roc*, from a Germanic source.


.. _cradle:

================================================================================
Cradle
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkreɪdl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A small bed for a baby, often one that can be rocked.
    2.  (Noun) The place or origin of something.
    3.  (Verb) To hold gently and protectively.

**What it really means**: A "**cradle**" is a baby's bed that can be rocked, or the place where something important began. As a verb, it means to hold something very gently and carefully, as if protecting it.

**When to use it**: Use it for baby beds, origins, or gentle, protective holding.
    * **Common phrases**: "from the **cradle** to the grave," "**cradle** of civilization," "**cradle** a baby."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The baby slept peacefully in its **cradle**." (Baby's bed.)
        * "Ancient Greece is considered the **cradle** of democracy." (Origin/birthplace.)
        * "He **cradled** the injured bird in his hands." (Held gently and protectively.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Bassinet, cot (UK), birthplace, origin. (Verb) Hold, nestle, nurse, support.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Grave, end. (Verb) Drop, release.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *cradol* (cradle).


.. _inducement:

================================================================================
Inducement
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈdjuːsmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A thing that persuades or influences someone to do something; an incentive.

**What it really means**: An "**inducement**" is something offered or promised that makes someone want to do something. It's a motivation or incentive, often financial or a benefit, that encourages a particular action.

**When to use it**: Use it for things that motivate or persuade people.
    * **Common phrases**: "financial **inducement**," "offer an **inducement**," "powerful **inducement**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The company offered a large bonus as an **inducement** to work overtime." (An incentive.)
        * "He refused to accept any **inducement** to change his vote." (Any persuasive offer.)
        * "The promise of a promotion was a strong **inducement** for her to work harder." (A powerful motivator.)

**Synonyms**: Incentive, motivation, stimulus, encouragement, lure, enticement, bribe.
**Opposite words**: Deterrent, disincentive, discouragement.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *inducere* (to lead in, induce).


.. _induce:

================================================================================
Induce
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈdjuːs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To persuade or influence someone to do something; to cause something to happen.

**What it really means**: To "**induce**" means to cause something to happen, often by persuasion or by creating the right conditions. It implies bringing about an effect or action.

**When to use it**: Use it for causing something to happen or persuading someone.
    * **Common phrases**: "**induce** sleep," "**induce** vomiting," "**induce** labor," "**induce** a state."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The doctor gave her medication to **induce** sleep." (To cause sleep.)
        * "Nothing could **induce** him to change his mind." (Persuade him.)
        * "The advertisement was designed to **induce** people to buy the product." (To cause people to buy.)

**Synonyms**: Persuade, influence, cause, bring about, lead to, prompt, effect, stimulate.
**Opposite words**: Deter, prevent, dissuade, inhibit, stop.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *inducere* (to lead in, introduce, persuade).


.. _industrious:

================================================================================
Industrious
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈdʌstriəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Hard-working and diligent.

**What it really means**: "**Industrious**" describes someone who works very hard and is always busy and careful in their work. It emphasizes diligence, effort, and a strong work ethic.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe people who are hard-working.
    * **Common phrases**: "**industrious** worker," "**industrious** student," "**industrious** efforts."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The ant is a very **industrious** creature, always building its nest." (Hard-working.)
        * "She was an **industrious** student, always completing her assignments on time." (Diligent.)
        * "Through their **industrious** efforts, they managed to finish the project ahead of schedule." (Hard-working efforts.)

**Synonyms**: Diligent, hardworking, assiduous, laborious, busy, zealous, productive.
**Opposite words**: Lazy, idle, indolent, shiftless, inactive.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *industriosus* (diligent), from *industria* (diligence).


.. _perplex:

================================================================================
Perplex
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈplɛks/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To make someone feel completely confused or bewildered.

**What it really means**: To "**perplex**" means to puzzle or confuse someone so much that they don't know what to think or do. It creates a feeling of bewilderment or being at a loss.

**When to use it**: Use it when something causes confusion or bewilderment.
    * **Common phrases**: "**perplex** someone," "deeply **perplex**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The strange message **perplexed** him." (Confused him.)
        * "The sudden change in plans **perplexed** everyone." (Made everyone confused.)
        * "His behavior continues to **perplex** me." (Confuse me.)

**Synonyms**: Puzzle, confuse, bewilder, baffle, mystify, confound, flummox.
**Opposite words**: Clarify, enlighten, explain, simplify.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *perplexer*, from Latin *perplexus* (entangled, confused).


.. _perplexing:

================================================================================
Perplexing
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈplɛksɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Causing confusion or bewilderment; puzzling.

**What it really means**: "**Perplexing**" describes something that is confusing, puzzling, or difficult to understand. It's the quality of something that makes you feel perplexed.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe things that are confusing or difficult to figure out.
    * **Common phrases**: "**perplexing** problem," "**perplexing** question," "**perplexing** situation."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The detective was faced with a **perplexing** mystery." (A confusing mystery.)
        * "It was a truly **perplexing** question that no one could answer." (A puzzling question.)
        * "The sudden disappearance of the documents was very **perplexing**." (Confusing.)

**Synonyms**: Puzzling, confusing, bewildering, baffling, mysterious, enigmatic, knotty.
**Opposite words**: Clear, straightforward, understandable, simple, obvious.
**Where it comes from**: From the verb "perplex."


.. _perplexed:

================================================================================
Perplexed
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈplɛkst/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Feeling confused or bewildered.

**What it really means**: "**Perplexed**" describes a person who feels confused, puzzled, or at a loss because of something difficult to understand. It's the state of being confused.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is feeling confused.
    * **Common phrases**: "look **perplexed**," "feel **perplexed**," "remain **perplexed**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He looked **perplexed** by the instructions." (He looked confused.)
        * "The students were **perplexed** by the complex math problem." (They felt confused.)
        * "I'm still **perplexed** as to why he left so suddenly." (Still confused.)

**Synonyms**: Confused, puzzled, bewildered, baffled, mystified, confounded.
**Opposite words**: Clear, understanding, enlightened, certain.
**Where it comes from**: From the verb "perplex."


.. _perplexity:

================================================================================
Perplexity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈplɛksɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being confused or bewildered; a confusing or difficult situation.

**What it really means**: "**Perplexity**" is the noun form of "perplex." It refers to the state of being confused or puzzled, or a situation that causes such confusion. It's the feeling or the quality of being difficult to understand.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the state of confusion or a confusing situation.
    * **Common phrases**: "state of **perplexity**," "cause **perplexity**," "full of **perplexity**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He stared at the map in utter **perplexity**." (In complete confusion.)
        * "The sudden turn of events caused great **perplexity** among the observers." (Caused great confusion.)
        * "The riddle was designed to create a sense of **perplexity**." (To create confusion.)

**Synonyms**: Confusion, bewilderment, puzzlement, bafflement, mystification, enigma.
**Opposite words**: Clarity, understanding, certainty, simplicity.
**Where it comes from**: From the verb "perplex."


.. _administer:

================================================================================
Administer
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ədˈmɪnɪstər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To manage and be responsible for the running of (a business, organization, or public service); to give out or apply (e.g., medicine, justice).

**What it really means**: To "**administer**" means to manage or control something, like an organization or a system. It also means to give out or apply something, such as medicine, justice, or an oath. It implies overseeing, organizing, or delivering.

**When to use it**: Use it for managing, organizing, or giving out something.
    * **Common phrases**: "**administer** a company," "**administer** medicine," "**administer** justice," "**administer** an oath."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The new team will **administer** the project from start to finish." (Manage and run.)
        * "The nurse will **administer** the medication at 8 AM." (Give out.)
        * "It is the court's duty to **administer** justice fairly." (Apply.)

**Synonyms**: Manage, run, govern, control, direct, supervise, dispense, apply, give, provide.
**Opposite words**: Mismanage, neglect, withhold.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *administrare* (to manage, serve, attend to).


.. _knit:

================================================================================
Knit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/nɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To make clothing or other items by interlocking loops of yarn or thread with needles.
    2.  (Verb) To join or grow together, especially bones.
    3.  (Verb) To draw brows together in a frown or concentration.
    4.  (Noun) Fabric made by knitting.

**What it really means**: To "**knit**" means to create fabric by looping yarn, or for things (like bones or groups) to join closely together. It implies a process of joining or forming a close connection.

**When to use it**: Use it for making fabric, bones healing, or brows frowning.
    * **Common phrases**: "**knit** a sweater," "bones **knit**," "**knit** brows," "closely **knit** community."
    * **Examples**:
        * "My grandmother loves to **knit** scarves for her grandchildren." (Make with yarn.)
        * "After the fracture, the bones slowly began to **knit** together." (Grow together.)
        * "He would **knit** his brows in concentration when solving a problem." (Frown.)
        * "They were a closely **knit** family." (Closely connected.)

**Synonyms**: (For fabric) Crochet. (For joining) Join, unite, fuse, mend. (For brows) Furrow, wrinkle.
**Opposite words**: (For joining) Separate, unravel, break apart.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *cnyttan* (to tie, knot).


.. _forbear:

================================================================================
Forbear
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/fɔːrˈbɛər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: (Formal) To politely or patiently hold back from doing something; to refrain.

**What it really means**: To "**forbear**" means to resist the urge to do something, especially something that might be impulsive or harmful. It implies patience, self-control, and choosing not to act.

**When to use it**: Use it in formal contexts when someone chooses to hold back from an action.
    * **Common phrases**: "**forbear** from doing," "**forbear** to comment."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He chose to **forbear** from criticizing his opponent publicly." (Held back from criticizing.)
        * "Please **forbear** to interrupt while I'm speaking." (Politely refrain from interrupting.)
        * "Despite his anger, he managed to **forbear** from shouting." (Restrain himself.)

**Synonyms**: Refrain, abstain, resist, hold back, desist, withhold.
**Opposite words**: Indulge, act, proceed, yield, give in.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *forberan* (to do without, abstain from).


.. _forbearing:

================================================================================
Forbearing
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/fɔːrˈbɛərɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Patient and self-controlled; refraining from acting or reacting, especially in a negative way.

**What it really means**: "**Forbearing**" describes a person who is patient, tolerant, and exercises self-control, especially when provoked or facing difficulty. It's the quality of being able to hold back from reacting impulsively or negatively.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone's patient and self-controlled character.
    * **Common phrases**: "**forbearing** nature," "**forbearing** attitude," "be **forbearing**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Despite the constant provocations, she remained remarkably **forbearing**." (Patient and self-controlled.)
        * "A good teacher needs to have a **forbearing** attitude towards slow learners." (Patient attitude.)
        * "His **forbearing** response helped to calm the tense situation." (Self-controlled response.)

**Synonyms**: Patient, tolerant, lenient, clement, long-suffering, self-controlled, restrained.
**Opposite words**: Impatient, intolerant, impulsive, reactive, hot-headed.
**Where it comes from**: From the verb "forbear."


.. _radiant:

================================================================================
Radiant
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈreɪdiənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Sending out light or heat; shining brightly; showing great joy or happiness.

**What it really means**: "**Radiant**" describes something that shines brightly, either literally (like light or heat) or figuratively (like a person's face showing great happiness). It implies emitting a glow or beaming with positive energy.

**When to use it**: Use it for bright light/heat, or for beaming happiness.
    * **Common phrases**: "**radiant** light," "**radiant** smile," "**radiant** beauty," "**radiant** bride."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The sun was **radiant** in the clear blue sky." (Shining brightly.)
        * "She had a **radiant** smile as she accepted the award." (Showing great joy.)
        * "The bride looked absolutely **radiant** on her wedding day." (Beaming with happiness.)

**Synonyms**: (For light) Shining, glowing, luminous, brilliant. (For happiness) Beaming, glowing, joyful, ecstatic, beaming, effulgent.
**Opposite words**: (For light) Dull, dim, dark. (For happiness) Sad, gloomy, miserable.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *radians* (shining), present participle of *radiare* (to emit rays).


.. _bosom:

================================================================================
Bosom
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈbʊzəm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  A woman's chest or breasts.
    2.  The chest as the seat of emotions or secrets.
    3.  A protective or nurturing embrace or environment.

**What it really means**: "**Bosom**" primarily refers to a woman's chest area. Figuratively, it can represent the deepest part of one's feelings or secrets, or a warm, protective, and nurturing place or relationship.

**When to use it**: Use it for the chest area, deep feelings/secrets, or a nurturing place.
    * **Common phrases**: "in the **bosom** of the family," "secrets held in one's **bosom**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She held the baby close to her **bosom**." (Her chest.)
        * "He kept his worries hidden deep within his **bosom**." (His innermost feelings/secrets.)
        * "She found comfort in the **bosom** of her family." (The warm, nurturing environment.)

**Synonyms**: (For chest) Chest, breast. (For feelings) Heart, soul, core. (For environment) Embrace, sanctuary, haven.
**Opposite words**: (For environment) Outside, exposed.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *bōsm* (bosom, breast).


.. _anguish:

================================================================================
Anguish
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈæŋɡwɪʃ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) Severe mental or physical pain or suffering.
    2.  (Verb) To suffer extreme pain or distress.

**What it really means**: "**Anguish**" is a feeling of extreme pain, suffering, or distress, whether it's emotional (like deep sadness or torment) or physical. It's a very intense and overwhelming form of suffering.

**When to use it**: Use it for very severe pain or suffering.
    * **Common phrases**: "in great **anguish**," "mental **anguish**," "physical **anguish**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He cried out in **anguish** after hearing the terrible news." (Severe mental pain.)
        * "The patient was in constant **anguish** from the injury." (Severe physical pain.)
        * "She felt deep **anguish** over her lost child." (Profound sorrow.)

**Synonyms**: Agony, torment, distress, suffering, pain, misery, heartache, torment.
**Opposite words**: Joy, happiness, relief, comfort, peace, pleasure.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *anguisse*, from Latin *angustia* (tightness, distress).


.. _despair:

================================================================================
Despair
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈspɛər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) The complete loss or absence of hope.
    2.  (Verb) To lose or abandon hope.

**What it really means**: "**Despair**" is a feeling of having absolutely no hope left. It's a deep sense of hopelessness and helplessness. As a verb, it means to give up all hope.

**When to use it**: Use it for the complete absence of hope or the act of losing hope.
    * **Common phrases**: "in **despair**," "fall into **despair**," "filled with **despair**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "After many failures, he fell into deep **despair**." (Lost all hope.)
        * "Don't **despair**; things will get better." (Don't lose hope.)
        * "The news filled her with utter **despair**." (Complete hopelessness.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Hopelessness, desperation, gloom, dejection, misery. (Verb) Lose hope, give up, abandon hope.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Hope, optimism, joy. (Verb) Hope, persevere, be optimistic.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *desperer*, from Latin *desperare* (to despair), from *de-* (away from) + *sperare* (to hope).


.. _eternal:

================================================================================
Eternal
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈtɜːrnl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Lasting or existing forever; without end or beginning.

**What it really means**: "**Eternal**" describes something that has no beginning and no end; it lasts forever. It implies timelessness, endlessness, or a state that is permanent and unchanging.

**When to use it**: Use it for things that last forever or seem to last forever.
    * **Common phrases**: "**eternal** life," "**eternal** love," "**eternal** truth," "**eternal** flame."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Many religions believe in **eternal** life after death." (Life without end.)
        * "Their love for each other seemed **eternal**." (Lasting forever.)
        * "The universe is often described as vast and **eternal**." (Existing forever.)

**Synonyms**: Everlasting, endless, perpetual, unending, timeless, immortal, infinite.
**Opposite words**: Temporary, fleeting, transient, brief, finite, mortal.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *eternel*, from Latin *aeternalis* (eternal).


.. _weary:

================================================================================
Weary
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈwɪəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Adjective) Feeling or showing tiredness, especially as a result of excessive exertion or lack of sleep.
    2.  (Adjective) Causing one to feel tired or bored.
    3.  (Verb) To make someone feel tired or bored.

**What it really means**: "**Weary**" describes feeling very tired, either physically or mentally, often from long effort or boredom. As a verb, it means to make someone feel this way.

**When to use it**: Use it for feeling tired or for things that cause tiredness/boredom.
    * **Common phrases**: "**weary** traveler," "grow **weary**," "make one **weary**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "After the long journey, the travelers were **weary**." (Very tired.)
        * "He grew **weary** of the constant arguments." (Became tired of/bored with.)
        * "The repetitive task began to **weary** her." (Make her tired/bored.)

**Synonyms**: (Adjective) Tired, fatigued, exhausted, drained, jaded, bored. (Verb) Tire, exhaust, bore.
**Opposite words**: (Adjective) Energetic, refreshed, lively, eager. (Verb) Energize, refresh, invigorate.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *wērig* (tired).


.. _rugged:

================================================================================
Rugged
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrʌɡɪd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Of terrain) Having a broken, uneven, or rocky surface; rough.
    2.  (Of a person, especially a man) Having a strong, rough, but attractive appearance.
    3.  (Of equipment) Strong and designed to be able to withstand rough treatment.

**What it really means**: "**Rugged**" describes a surface that is rough and uneven, like mountains or land. It can also describe a person (usually a man) who looks strong and tough in an attractive way, or equipment that is built to be very durable and withstand harsh conditions.

**When to use it**: Use it for rough landscapes, tough-looking people, or durable equipment.
    * **Common phrases**: "**rugged** mountains," "**rugged** individual," "**rugged** terrain," "**rugged** durability."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The hikers explored the **rugged** terrain of the wilderness." (Rough and uneven land.)
        * "He had a **rugged** face, weathered by years of outdoor work." (Strong and tough-looking.)
        * "The laptop was designed for **rugged** use in extreme environments." (Strong and durable.)

**Synonyms**: (For terrain) Rough, uneven, craggy, rocky. (For person) Tough, strong, hardy, weather-beaten. (For equipment) Durable, robust, sturdy, heavy-duty.
**Opposite words**: (For terrain) Smooth, flat, even. (For person) Delicate, soft, refined. (For equipment) Fragile, flimsy.
**Where it comes from**: Probably from a Scandinavian source, related to "ragged."


.. _thorny:

================================================================================
Thorny
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈθɔːrni/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  Having thorns (sharp points) or full of thorns.
    2.  (Of a problem or issue) Full of difficulties; complicated and difficult to deal with.

**What it really means**: "**Thorny**" literally means having sharp points like a rose bush. Figuratively, it describes a problem or issue that is very difficult, complicated, and full of obstacles, making it hard to solve or discuss.

**When to use it**: Use it for things with thorns, or for difficult problems/issues.
    * **Common phrases**: "**thorny** bush," "**thorny** issue," "**thorny** problem," "a **thorny** question."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The gardener had to wear thick gloves to prune the **thorny** roses." (Having thorns.)
        * "The question of privacy in the digital age is a very **thorny** issue." (Full of difficulties.)
        * "Negotiating the peace treaty proved to be a **thorny** process." (Complicated and difficult.)

**Synonyms**: (For physical) Prickly, spiky. (For problems) Difficult, complex, tricky, problematic, vexing, intricate.
**Opposite words**: (For physical) Smooth, soft. (For problems) Simple, easy, straightforward.
**Where it comes from**: From Old English *þorn* (thorn) + "-y."


.. _grope:

================================================================================
Grope
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɡrəʊp/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To feel about or search blindly or uncertainly with the hands.

**What it really means**: To "**grope**" means to search for something by feeling with your hands, especially when you can't see or are in the dark. Figuratively, it means to search uncertainly for a solution or understanding.

**When to use it**: Use it for searching blindly with hands, or for uncertain searching for solutions.
    * **Common phrases**: "**grope** in the dark," "**grope** for words," "**grope** for a solution."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He had to **grope** his way through the dark room to find the light switch." (Feel blindly.)
        * "She was **groping** for the right words to express her feelings." (Searching uncertainly.)
        * "The team was **groping** for a strategy that would work." (Searching uncertainly for a solution.)

**Synonyms**: Fumble, feel around, search blindly, flounder, struggle.
**Opposite words**: See, find, grasp, understand, know.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *grāpian* (to touch, handle).


.. _sorrow:

================================================================================
Sorrow
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɒrəʊ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A feeling of deep distress caused by loss, disappointment, or other misfortune; sadness.
    2.  (Verb) To feel or express deep sadness.

**What it really means**: "**Sorrow**" is a deep and intense feeling of sadness, grief, or regret, often caused by a significant loss or misfortune. It's a more profound and lasting sadness than simple unhappiness.

**When to use it**: Use it for deep sadness, grief, or regret.
    * **Common phrases**: "deep **sorrow**," "fill with **sorrow**," "to one's **sorrow**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The family was filled with **sorrow** after the death of their pet." (Deep sadness.)
        * "To her great **sorrow**, she had to leave her home." (To her great sadness.)
        * "He could not help but **sorrow** over the missed opportunity." (Feel deep sadness.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Sadness, grief, anguish, distress, regret, misery, heartache. (Verb) Grieve, mourn, lament.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Joy, happiness, pleasure, delight, cheer. (Verb) Rejoice, celebrate.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *sorg* (care, anxiety, grief).


.. _putt_on_airs:

================================================================================
Putt on airs
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pʊt ɒn ɛərz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Idiom* (verb phrase)
* **Simple Meaning**: To behave in a way that shows you think you are more important, intelligent, or sophisticated than you really are, often to impress others.

**What it really means**: To "**put on airs**" means to act as if you are superior or more refined than you actually are. It's about behaving in an artificial or pretentious way to make a grand impression, often seen as arrogant or insincere.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone behaving pretentiously or snobbishly.
    * **Examples**:
        * "Ever since she won the lottery, she's been **putting on airs**." (Acting as if she's superior.)
        * "Don't **put on airs** with me; I know where you came from." (Don't act snobbish.)
        * "He tried to **put on airs** at the fancy party, but everyone saw through it." (Tried to act sophisticated.)

**Synonyms**: Act superior, be pretentious, show off, boast, swagger, give oneself airs.
**Opposite words**: Be humble, be modest, be genuine.
**Where it comes from**: The phrase likely comes from the idea of adopting a certain "air" or manner.


.. _stoical:

================================================================================
Stoical
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈstəʊɪkl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Enduring pain and hardship without showing feelings or complaining.

**What it really means**: "**Stoical**" describes a person who can calmly and patiently endure difficult or painful situations without showing their emotions or complaining. It implies great self-control and an acceptance of hardship.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who remains calm and uncomplaining in difficult times.
    * **Common phrases**: "**stoical** acceptance," "**stoical** attitude," "remain **stoical**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He faced his illness with **stoical** courage." (Endured it without complaining.)
        * "Despite the loss, she maintained a **stoical** expression." (Didn't show her feelings.)
        * "The soldiers were trained to be **stoical** in the face of danger." (To endure without showing fear.)

**Synonyms**: Patient, enduring, resilient, impassive, unflappable, calm, composed, uncomplaining.
**Opposite words**: Emotional, sensitive, expressive, complaining, agitated, distraught.
**Where it comes from**: From "Stoic," a school of ancient Greek philosophy that taught self-control and fortitude.


.. _scorn:

================================================================================
Scorn
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/skɔːrn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A feeling and expression of contempt or disdain for someone or something considered unworthy.
    2.  (Verb) To feel or express contempt or disdain for.

**What it really means**: "**Scorn**" is a strong feeling of disrespect and dislike for someone or something you consider worthless or beneath you. As a verb, it means to show this strong disrespect.

**When to use it**: Use it for strong feelings of disrespect or showing such disrespect.
    * **Common phrases**: "hold in **scorn**," "treat with **scorn**," "**scorn** the idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He looked at the suggestion with **scorn**." (With strong disrespect.)
        * "She **scorned** their attempts to apologize." (Felt and showed contempt for.)
        * "Many people **scorn** dishonest politicians." (Feel disdain for.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Contempt, disdain, derision, ridicule, mockery. (Verb) Disdain, despise, mock, ridicule, spurn, reject.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Respect, admiration, reverence, honor. (Verb) Respect, admire, praise, cherish.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *escarn* (mockery, contempt).


.. _loathe:

================================================================================
Loathe
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ləʊð/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To feel intense dislike or disgust for; to hate.

**What it really means**: To "**loathe**" means to hate something or someone very, very much. It's a strong feeling of intense disgust or aversion.

**When to use it**: Use it for expressing very strong hatred or disgust.
    * **Common phrases**: "**loathe** to do something," "**loathe** someone/something."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She absolutely **loathes** doing housework." (Hates it intensely.)
        * "He came to **loathe** his job after years of unhappiness." (To hate intensely.)
        * "I **loathe** the taste of olives." (Feel intense disgust for.)

**Synonyms**: Hate, detest, abhor, despise, execrate, abominate.
**Opposite words**: Love, adore, like, admire, cherish.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *lāðian* (to hate, be hateful).


.. _swell:

================================================================================
Swell
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/swɛl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To become larger or rounder in size, typically as a result of an accumulation of fluid or gas.
    2.  (Verb) To increase in size, amount, or intensity.
    3.  (Noun) A slow, regular movement of the sea in waves.
    4.  (Noun) A gradual increase in sound or feeling.

**What it really means**: To "**swell**" means to get bigger, expand, or increase in size, amount, or intensity. This can be physical (like a bruise) or figurative (like emotions or numbers). It also refers to the movement of ocean waves.

**When to use it**: Use it for things getting larger, increasing, or for ocean waves.
    * **Common phrases**: "ankle **swells**," "numbers **swell**," "pride **swells**," "ocean **swell**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "His ankle began to **swell** after the injury." (Become larger.)
        * "The crowd continued to **swell** as more people arrived." (Increase in number.)
        * "A feeling of pride **swelled** within her." (Increased in intensity.)
        * "The boat rode the gentle **swell** of the ocean." (The wave movement.)

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Expand, enlarge, increase, inflate, bulge, rise, intensify. (Noun) Wave, surge, increase.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Shrink, contract, decrease, diminish, subside.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *swellan* (to swell).



.. _contempt:

================================================================================
Contempt
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈtɛmpt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The feeling that someone or something is worthless or beneath consideration; disdain.

**What it really means**: "**Contempt**" is a powerful feeling of disrespect and disdain for someone or something you believe is worthless, inferior, or deserving of no consideration. It's a stronger and more negative feeling than mere dislike.

**When to use it**: Use it for strong feelings of worthlessness or disrespect.
    * **Common phrases**: "hold in **contempt**," "treat with **contempt**," "**contempt** for authority."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He felt nothing but **contempt** for the corrupt politician." (Belief that he was worthless.)
        * "She treated his suggestions with utter **contempt**." (Disregarded them as worthless.)
        * "The judge found him in **contempt** of court for refusing to answer." (Disrespect for the court's authority.)

**Synonyms**: Disdain, scorn, disrespect, condescension, deprecation, loathing, abhorrence.
**Opposite words**: Respect, admiration, reverence, esteem, honor, regard.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *contemptus* (scorn), from *contemnere* (to scorn, despise).


.. _restrain_duplicate:

================================================================================
Restrain
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈstreɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To prevent someone or something from doing something; to hold back or control.

**What it really means**: To "**restrain**" means to keep someone or something under control, preventing them from acting freely or going too far. It can involve physical force, but often refers to controlling emotions, actions, or growth.

**When to use it**: Use it when something or someone is being held back or controlled.
    * **Common phrases**: "**restrain** anger," "**restrain** a dog," "**restrain** spending," "**restrain** oneself."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The police officer had to **restrain** the angry crowd." (Hold them back.)
        * "She managed to **restrain** her laughter during the serious speech." (Hold back her emotion.)
        * "The government tried to **restrain** rising inflation." (Control or limit it.)

**Synonyms**: Control, curb, hold back, check, limit, restrict, suppress, hinder.
**Opposite words**: Unleash, release, liberate, encourage, allow.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *restraindre*, from Latin *restringere* (to tie back, confine).


.. _correspondence:

================================================================================
Correspondence
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌkɒrɪˈspɒndəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  Communication by exchanging letters or emails.
    2.  A close similarity, connection, or agreement between two things.

**What it really means**: "**Correspondence**" refers to written communication, especially letters or emails exchanged between people. It can also mean a strong similarity or agreement between two different things.

**When to use it**: Use it for written communication or for strong similarities/agreements.
    * **Common phrases**: "email **correspondence**," "written **correspondence**," "in **correspondence** with," "direct **correspondence**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "We had a long **correspondence** over the years, exchanging many letters." (Communication by letters.)
        * "There was a direct **correspondence** between his effort and his results." (A close similarity/connection.)
        * "All official **correspondence** is handled by the secretary." (Official written communication.)

**Synonyms**: (For communication) Communication, letters, emails, messages, writing. (For similarity) Agreement, conformity, correlation, similarity, parallel.
**Opposite words**: (For communication) Oral communication. (For similarity) Disagreement, difference, discrepancy.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *correspondere* (to correspond), from *cor-* (together) + *respondere* (to answer).


.. _strain:

================================================================================
Strain
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/streɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To make an effort to do something, often with difficulty.
    2.  (Verb) To injure a muscle or part of the body by overstretching it.
    3.  (Verb) To put a severe demand on (a system, resource, or person).
    4.  (Noun) A force tending to pull or stretch something to an extreme degree.
    5.  (Noun) A state of tension or exhaustion resulting from overwork or difficulties.
    6.  (Noun) A particular breed, variety, or type of animal, plant, or microorganism.

**What it really means**: "**Strain**" means to put pressure on something, either physically (like a muscle) or mentally (like a relationship). It can also mean to make a great effort or to filter something. It implies tension, effort, or damage from overuse.

**When to use it**: Use it for physical injury, mental pressure, making an effort, or filtering.
    * **Common phrases**: "**strain** a muscle," "under **strain**," "**strain** relations," "put a **strain** on."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He **strained** his back while lifting heavy boxes." (Injured by overstretching.)
        * "The constant arguments put a **strain** on their friendship." (Put pressure on.)
        * "She had to **strain** to hear what they were saying." (Make a great effort.)
        * "The new policies will **strain** the public services." (Put severe demand on.)
        * "This new **strain** of flu is very contagious." (A type/variety.)

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Sprain, injure, overtax, stretch, stress, exert, filter. (Noun) Tension, pressure, stress, injury, burden, type, variety.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Relax, ease, relieve. (Noun) Ease, relaxation.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *estreindre* (to stretch tightly), from Latin *stringere* (to draw tight).


.. _arouse:

================================================================================
Arouse
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈraʊz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To awaken someone from sleep; to cause or stir up a feeling, emotion, or reaction.

**What it really means**: To "**arouse**" means to wake someone up from sleep, or more commonly, to cause a strong feeling, emotion, or interest to begin or become stronger. It implies stimulating a response.

**When to use it**: Use it for waking someone or for stirring emotions/interest.
    * **Common phrases**: "**arouse** suspicion," "**arouse** interest," "**arouse** anger," "**arouse** from sleep."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The loud noise **aroused** him from his sleep." (Woke him up.)
        * "The mysterious letter **aroused** her curiosity." (Stirred up her curiosity.)
        * "His comments were intended to **arouse** public support." (To cause support to grow.)

**Synonyms**: Awaken, wake up, stir, excite, provoke, stimulate, ignite, evoke.
**Opposite words**: Calm, soothe, pacify, suppress, lull, put to sleep.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *a-rouser* (to stir up).


.. _dawn:

================================================================================
Dawn
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɔːn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) The first appearance of light in the sky before sunrise; daybreak.
    2.  (Noun) The beginning of a period of time or event.
    3.  (Verb) (Of a day) Begin.
    4.  (Verb) (Of a fact or idea) Become apparent or understood.

**What it really means**: "**Dawn**" is the very beginning of the day, when light first appears. Figuratively, it means the beginning of something new, or when an idea suddenly becomes clear and understood.

**When to use it**: Use it for sunrise, beginnings, or sudden understanding.
    * **Common phrases**: "at **dawn**," "the **dawn** of a new era," "it **dawned** on me."
    * **Examples**:
        * "We left the camp at **dawn** to avoid the heat." (At sunrise.)
        * "The invention of the internet marked the **dawn** of a new information age." (The beginning.)
        * "Suddenly, it **dawned** on me what he meant." (I suddenly understood.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Daybreak, sunrise, morning, beginning, outset. (Verb) Begin, emerge, appear, become clear, realize.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Dusk, sunset, night, end, conclusion. (Verb) Fade, disappear.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *dagung* (daybreak).


.. _piteous:

================================================================================
Piteous
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpɪtiəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Deserving or arousing pity; pathetic.

**What it really means**: "**Piteous**" describes something that makes you feel a strong sense of pity or sympathy. It's often used for a sad or pathetic sight or sound that evokes compassion.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that makes you feel very sorry for it.
    * **Common phrases**: "**piteous** cry," "**piteous** sight," "**piteous** plea."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The stray dog let out a **piteous** whine." (A whine that made you feel pity.)
        * "It was a **piteous** sight to see the starving children." (A sight that aroused pity.)
        * "He made a **piteous** plea for help." (A plea that was very sad and deserving of pity.)

**Synonyms**: Pitiful, pathetic, miserable, lamentable, wretched, sorrowful, heartbreaking.
**Opposite words**: Joyful, cheerful, admirable, strong, proud.
**Where it comes from**: From Old French *piteus* (pitiable), from *pitié* (pity).


.. _whip:

================================================================================
Whip
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/wɪp/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A strip of leather or cord fastened to a handle, used for striking animals or people.
    2.  (Verb) To strike with a whip.
    3.  (Verb) To move or pull something quickly and suddenly.
    4.  (Verb) To beat food (like cream or eggs) vigorously to make it frothy.
    5.  (Informal, Verb) To defeat easily.

**What it really means**: A "**whip**" is a tool for striking. As a verb, it means to strike forcefully, to move very quickly and suddenly, or to beat food to make it light. It implies quick, forceful action.

**When to use it**: Use it for striking, quick movement, beating food, or easy defeat.
    * **Common phrases**: "**whip** a horse," "**whip** up cream," "**whip** out a phone," "**whip** into shape."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The cowboy used his **whip** to guide the cattle." (The tool.)
        * "She quickly **whipped** out her phone to take a picture." (Pulled out quickly.)
        * "Can you **whip** the cream for the dessert?" (Beat vigorously.)
        * "Our team **whipped** the opponents in the final game." (Defeated easily.)

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Strike, lash, beat, flick, whisk, defeat, overcome. (Noun) Lash, scourge.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Caress, soothe, lose.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *hwip* (a whip).


.. _grieve:

================================================================================
Grieve
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɡriːv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To feel intense sorrow or sadness, especially over a death or loss.

**What it really means**: To "**grieve**" means to experience deep sadness and sorrow, particularly after a loss, such as the death of a loved one. It's the process of mourning and feeling profound emotional pain.

**When to use it**: Use it for experiencing deep sadness over a loss.
    * **Common phrases**: "**grieve** for," "**grieve** over," "deeply **grieve**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The family is still **grieving** the loss of their father." (Feeling deep sadness.)
        * "It takes time to **grieve** properly after a major loss." (To experience sorrow.)
        * "She **grieved** over the missed opportunity for many years." (Felt deep sadness.)

**Synonyms**: Mourn, sorrow, lament, weep, ache, suffer, be in distress.
**Opposite words**: Rejoice, celebrate, be happy.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *grever* (to burden, afflict), from Latin *gravare* (to burden).


.. _humane:

================================================================================
Humane
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/hjuːˈmeɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Showing kindness, compassion, and sympathy towards others, especially animals or suffering people.

**What it really means**: "**Humane**" describes behavior that is kind, compassionate, and considerate, especially towards those who are vulnerable, suffering, or in a weaker position. It emphasizes treating others with dignity and minimizing pain.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe kind, compassionate, and ethical treatment.
    * **Common phrases**: "**humane** treatment," "**humane** conditions," "**humane** society."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The organization advocates for the **humane** treatment of animals." (Kind and compassionate treatment.)
        * "Prisoners should be kept in **humane** conditions." (Conditions that show kindness and respect.)
        * "It was a **humane** decision to provide shelter for the homeless during the cold weather." (A kind and compassionate decision.)

**Synonyms**: Compassionate, kind, benevolent, merciful, sympathetic, gentle, tender, ethical.
**Opposite words**: Inhumane, cruel, brutal, merciless, unkind, callous.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *humanus* (human, cultured).


.. _pail:

================================================================================
Pail
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/peɪl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A bucket.

**What it really means**: A "**pail**" is a round, open container with a handle, used for carrying liquids like water or milk, or loose materials like sand. It's another word for a bucket.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a bucket.
    * **Common phrases**: "water **pail**," "milk **pail**," "sand **pail**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He carried a **pail** of water from the well." (A bucket of water.)
        * "The children played on the beach with their sand **pails**." (Their buckets.)
        * "She filled the **pail** with fresh milk." (The bucket.)

**Synonyms**: Bucket.
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites).
**Where it comes from**: Old French *paiel* (bucket).




.. _cord:

================================================================================
Cord
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kɔːrd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A long, thin, flexible string or rope made from several twisted strands.

**What it really means**: A "**cord**" is a piece of strong string or thin rope, typically made by twisting together several strands. It's used for tying, fastening, or connecting things. It can also refer to a flexible electrical cable.

**When to use it**: Use it for thin ropes, strings, or electrical cables.
    * **Common phrases**: "umbilical **cord**," "electrical **cord**," "tie with a **cord**," "vocal **cords**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She tied the package with a piece of **cord**."
        * "Be careful not to trip over the lamp's electrical **cord**."
        * "The mountaineer used a strong **cord** to secure his equipment."

**Synonyms**: String, rope, twine, line, cable, wire.
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites).
**Where it comes from**: Old French *corde*, from Latin *chorda* (string).


.. _careworn:

================================================================================
Careworn
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɛərwɔːrn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Tired and worn out by worry or hard work.

**What it really means**: "**Careworn**" describes a person or their appearance as showing the effects of prolonged worry, anxiety, or hardship. Their face, for example, might look tired, lined, or strained, indicating that they have been through a lot of stress.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who looks tired or aged due to worry or difficulties.
    * **Examples**:
        * "**He looked somewhat careworn** after months of dealing with the family crisis."
        * "Her **careworn** face told a story of many sleepless nights."
        * "The old man's hands were rough and **careworn** from years of manual labor."

**Synonyms**: Haggard, drawn, weary, tired, worn, stressed, strained, anxious-looking.
**Opposite words**: Fresh, rested, youthful, vibrant, carefree.
**Where it comes from**: From "care" (worry) + "worn" (worn out).


.. _exact:

================================================================================
Exact
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪɡˈzækt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Adjective) Precise and accurate; strictly correct.
    2.  (Verb) To demand and obtain something from someone, especially payment or information.

**What it really means**: As an adjective, "**exact**" means precisely correct, with no deviation. As a verb, it means to demand and get something, often with a sense of authority or force, like demanding payment or strict adherence. The example "Mrs. Davis is not too exacting" means she is not too demanding or strict.

**When to use it**: Use it for precision, or for demanding something forcefully.
    * **Common phrases**: "**exact** replica," "**exact** time," "**exact** revenge," "**exact** payment."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Please give me the **exact** measurements of the room."
        * "The teacher was very **exact** in her instructions."
        * "“That you, Lizzie! why are you here so late? Still at work; I hope that Mrs. Davis is not too **exacting**!" (meaning demanding or strict.)

**Synonyms**: (Adjective) Precise, accurate, strict, rigorous, meticulous. (Verb) Demand, extort, compel, require, insist on.
**Opposite words**: (Adjective) Inexact, imprecise, vague, approximate. (Verb) Give, waive, relinquish.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *exactus* (precise, exact), past participle of *exigere* (to drive out, demand).


.. _deceptive:

================================================================================
Deceptive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈsɛptɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Giving a misleading impression; tending to deceive.

**What it really means**: "**Deceptive**" describes something that appears one way but is actually another, leading you to believe something that isn't true. It's misleading or tricky. The example "he said the gas-light was so deceptive to his old eyes" means the light made things appear differently than they were, confusing his vision.

**When to use it**: Use it when something is misleading or creates a false impression.
    * **Common phrases**: "**deceptive** appearance," "**deceptive** simplicity," "**deceptive** advertising."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The calm surface of the lake was **deceptive**; strong currents lay beneath."
        * "**He said the gas-light was so deceptive to his old eyes**, making things appear different."
        * "His quiet manner was **deceptive**; he was actually a very assertive person."

**Synonyms**: Misleading, false, illusory, delusive, tricky, specious, fraudulent.
**Opposite words**: Honest, straightforward, clear, truthful, accurate.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deceptivus* (deceptive), from *decipere* (to deceive).


.. _infer:

================================================================================
Infer
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈfɜːr/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To deduce or conclude (information) from evidence and reasoning rather than from explicit statements.

**What it really means**: To "**infer**" means to figure something out or draw a conclusion based on evidence, hints, or reasoning, even if it's not directly stated. It's about reading between the lines or making an educated guess.

**When to use it**: Use it when drawing conclusions from indirect information.
    * **Common phrases**: "**infer** from," "it can be **inferred** that."
    * **Examples**:
        * "From her silence, I **inferred** that she was angry."
        * "**He inferred that the gown was for him, that it was to be the Christmas present from his wife, and he did not wish to destroy the pleasure that she would experience in believing that the gift would prove a surprise.**"
        * "What can you **infer** from the data presented in the report?"

**Synonyms**: Deduce, conclude, reason, surmise, gather, presume, read into.
**Opposite words**: State, explicate, prove, misunderstand.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *inferre* (to bring in, deduce), from *in-* (into) + *ferre* (to bear, carry).


.. _domestic:

================================================================================
Domestic
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dəˈmɛstɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word), *Noun* (countable, informal)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Adjective) Relating to the home, household, or family affairs.
    2.  (Adjective) Relating to one's own country; not foreign.
    3.  (Noun, informal) A domestic servant.

**What it really means**: "**Domestic**" primarily refers to anything connected with the home, family life, or household duties. It can also refer to things within one's own country, as opposed to foreign matters. The example "in the domestic circle" refers to his behavior within his family and home.

**When to use it**: Use it for home/family matters or things within one's own country.
    * **Common phrases**: "**domestic** violence," "**domestic** animals," "**domestic** flights," "**domestic** policy."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She enjoys her **domestic** life, spending time with her family."
        * "**In this respect, as in many others, he always appeared to me as a thoughtful, considerate man in the domestic circle.**"
        * "The airline only offers **domestic** flights, not international ones."

**Synonyms**: (For home) Household, family, home-based, private. (For country) Internal, national, native.
**Opposite words**: Foreign, international, public.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *domesticus* (belonging to the house), from *domus* (house).


.. _privation:

================================================================================
Privation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/praɪˈveɪʃn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A state in which things that are essential for human well-being, such as food and warmth, are scarce or lacking.

**What it really means**: "**Privation**" refers to a severe lack of the basic necessities of life, such as food, water, shelter, or comfort. It describes a state of extreme hardship and deprivation.

**When to use it**: Use it for severe lack of basic necessities.
    * **Common phrases**: "suffer **privation**," "state of **privation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The refugees endured years of **privation** in the camp."
        * "Many people in the war-torn region faced extreme **privation**."
        * "The famine led to widespread **privation** across the country."

**Synonyms**: Hardship, destitution, poverty, deprivation, want, need, penury.
**Opposite words**: Abundance, luxury, comfort, plenty, affluence.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *privatio* (a taking away), from *privare* (to deprive).


.. _deprivation:

================================================================================
Deprivation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdɛprɪˈveɪʃn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The damaging lack of material benefits considered to be basic necessities in a society; the state of being without something that one needs.

**What it really means**: "**Deprivation**" is the state of not having something that is considered necessary or desirable, often referring to basic human needs like food, education, or rights. It implies a loss or absence of something important, leading to disadvantage.

**When to use it**: Use it for the lack of necessities or important things.
    * **Common phrases**: "sleep **deprivation**," "sensory **deprivation**," "social **deprivation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Many children in the area suffer from educational **deprivation**."
        * "Sleep **deprivation** can have serious health consequences."
        * "**I often heard her say that she disliked the idea of breaking up old associations, and going South to suffer from trouble and deprivation.**"

**Synonyms**: Lack, want, privation, disadvantage, hardship, destitution, loss.
**Opposite words**: Provision, abundance, plenty, enrichment, fulfillment.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deprivare* (to deprive).


.. _submit:

================================================================================
Submit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səbˈmɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To accept or yield to a superior force or to the authority or will of another person; to present (a proposal, application, etc.) for consideration or judgment.

**What it really means**: To "**submit**" means to give in to someone else's authority or power, or to formally present something for approval or consideration. It implies either yielding or formally presenting. The example "The Southern people will not submit to the humiliating demands..." means they will not yield or give in to those demands.

**When to use it**: Use it for yielding to authority or formally presenting something.
    * **Common phrases**: "**submit** to authority," "**submit** a report," "**submit** an application."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The rebels refused to **submit** to the government's demands."
        * "**The Southern people will not submit to the humiliating demands of the Abolition party; they will fight first.**"
        * "All assignments must be **submitted** by Friday."

**Synonyms**: Yield, surrender, accede, comply, present, hand in, tender, propose.
**Opposite words**: Resist, defy, oppose, withdraw, refuse.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *submittere* (to put under, yield).


.. _impulsive:

================================================================================
Impulsive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪmˈpʌlsɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Acting or done without forethought; spontaneous.

**What it really means**: "**Impulsive**" describes someone who acts suddenly, without thinking carefully about the consequences. It implies acting on a sudden urge or feeling rather than careful planning.

**When to use it**: Use it for actions or people who act without much thought.
    * **Common phrases**: "**impulsive** decision," "**impulsive** purchase," "**impulsive** behavior."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Her **impulsive** decision to quit her job surprised everyone."
        * "He's an **impulsive** buyer; he often buys things he doesn't need."
        * "**The South is impulsive**, is in earnest, and the Southern soldiers will fight to conquer."

**Synonyms**: Spontaneous, rash, reckless, hasty, impetuous, unthinking, hot-headed.
**Opposite words**: Cautious, deliberate, thoughtful, planned, considered.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *impulsus* (a push, impulse).


.. _exasperate:

================================================================================
Exasperate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪɡˈzæspəreɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To irritate intensely; to infuriate.

**What it really means**: To "**exasperate**" means to make someone extremely annoyed, frustrated, or impatient. It implies pushing someone's patience to its limit, often through repeated annoyances.

**When to use it**: Use it when something causes intense irritation or frustration.
    * **Common phrases**: "**exasperate** someone," "deeply **exasperated**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The constant delays began to **exasperate** the travelers."
        * "Her endless questions **exasperated** the teacher."
        * "The Northern people will look upon them as the cause of the war, and I fear, in their **exasperation**, will be inclined to treat you harshly." (This example uses the noun form, but illustrates the feeling caused by the verb).

**Synonyms**: Irritate, annoy, infuriate, frustrate, madden, vex, provoke.
**Opposite words**: Calm, soothe, pacify, please, relieve.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *exasperare* (to irritate, provoke), from *ex-* (out) + *asper* (rough).


.. _exasperation:

================================================================================
Exasperation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪɡˌzæspəˈreɪʃn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A feeling of intense irritation or annoyance.

**What it really means**: "**Exasperation**" is the noun form of "exasperate." It refers to the state of being intensely irritated, annoyed, or frustrated, often due to a prolonged or repeated difficulty.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the feeling of intense irritation or annoyance.
    * **Common phrases**: "in **exasperation**," "sigh of **exasperation**," "full of **exasperation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She threw her hands up in **exasperation**."
        * "The constant noise filled him with **exasperation**."
        * "**The Northern people will look upon them as the cause of the war, and I fear, in their exasperation, will be inclined to treat you harshly.**"

**Synonyms**: Irritation, annoyance, frustration, fury, rage, vexation, impatience.
**Opposite words**: Calm, patience, relief, composure.
**Where it comes from**: From the verb "exasperate."


.. _settle:

================================================================================
Settle
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɛtl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To resolve or reach an agreement about (an argument or problem); to establish or become established in a place; to become calm or stable.

**What it really means**: To "**settle**" means to resolve a dispute, establish oneself in a place, or become calm and stable. It implies bringing something to a conclusion, making a home, or finding peace. The example "it may be considered settled that he will be their President" means it is considered decided or established.

**When to use it**: Use it for resolving issues, establishing a home, or becoming calm.
    * **Common phrases**: "**settle** an argument," "**settle** down," "**settle** in," "**settle** for."
    * **Examples**:
        * "They managed to **settle** their differences peacefully."
        * "After years of travel, he decided to **settle** in a small village."
        * "**In fact, it may be considered settled that he will be their President.**"

**Synonyms**: Resolve, decide, conclude, establish, reside, calm, stabilize, clear.
**Opposite words**: Unsettle, disturb, agitate, move, complicate, dispute.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *setlan* (to seat, place).


.. _secede:

================================================================================
Secede
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/sɪˈsiːd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To formally withdraw from a federation or body, especially a political one.

**What it really means**: To "**secede**" means for a state, region, or group to formally and officially separate itself from a larger political entity, like a country or union. It implies a deliberate act of breaking away.

**When to use it**: Use it for formal withdrawal from a political body.
    * **Common phrases**: "**secede** from the Union," "threaten to **secede**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The region voted to **secede** from the country."
        * "**As soon as we go South and secede from the other States**, we will raise an army and march on Washington."
        * "The debate over whether the province should **secede** continued for years."

**Synonyms**: Withdraw, break away, split, separate, pull out, quit.
**Opposite words**: Join, unite, merge, integrate, affiliate.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *secedere* (to withdraw), from *se-* (apart) + *cedere* (to go).


.. _sovereign:

================================================================================
Sovereign
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɒvrɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A supreme ruler, especially a monarch.
    2.  (Adjective) Possessing supreme or ultimate power; independent.

**What it really means**: "**Sovereign**" refers to a supreme ruler (like a king or queen) or, more commonly, describes a state or country that has complete independence and self-governance, with ultimate power within its own borders. It implies ultimate authority and freedom from external control.

**When to use it**: Use it for supreme rulers or for independent states/powers.
    * **Common phrases**: "**sovereign** state," "**sovereign** power," "**sovereign** nation."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The queen is the **sovereign** of the country."
        * "Every nation has the right to be a **sovereign** state."
        * "As soon as we go South and secede from the other States, we will raise an army and march on Washington, and then I shall live in the White House." (Implies the goal of establishing a **sovereign** entity.)

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Ruler, monarch, potentate. (Adjective) Independent, autonomous, supreme, ultimate, self-governing.
**Opposite words**: (Adjective) Dependent, subordinate, subservient.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *soverain*, from Latin *superanus* (chief, principal).


.. _venerate:

================================================================================
Venerate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvɛnəreɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To regard with great respect; revere.

**What it really means**: To "**venerate**" means to show deep respect and reverence for someone or something, often because of their age, wisdom, or sacred qualities. It implies holding something in very high esteem, almost with awe.

**When to use it**: Use it for showing deep respect or reverence.
    * **Common phrases**: "**venerate** ancestors," "**venerate** a saint," "**venerate** traditions."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Many cultures **venerate** their elders for their wisdom."
        * "**The people would fight for the flag that they pretended to venerate so highly.**"
        * "Ancient texts were **venerated** as sources of truth."

**Synonyms**: Revere, respect, honor, adore, worship, hallow, esteem.
**Opposite words**: Disrespect, despise, scorn, disdain, revile.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *venerari* (to worship, revere).


.. _canvass:

================================================================================
Canvass
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkænvəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To solicit votes, opinions, or orders from (voters or consumers).
    2.  (Verb) To discuss (a subject or issue) thoroughly.
    3.  (Noun) An act of canvassing.

**What it really means**: To "**canvass**" means to go around to people (like voters or customers) to ask for their votes, opinions, or support. It also means to thoroughly discuss or examine a topic. The example "the Presidential canvass" refers to the process of soliciting votes or support for a presidential election.

**When to use it**: Use it for soliciting support/opinions or for thorough discussion.
    * **Common phrases**: "**canvass** for votes," "**canvass** opinions," "door-to-door **canvass**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Volunteers went door-to-door to **canvass** for the candidate."
        * "The committee will **canvass** the various options before making a decision."
        * "**I could not think that the hosts composing the party would quietly yield all they had gained in the Presidential canvass.**"

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Solicit, survey, poll, campaign, debate, discuss, examine. (Noun) Survey, poll, campaign.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Ignore, overlook.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *canevas* (canvas), originally referring to sifting through something with canvas.


.. _cast:

================================================================================
Cast
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kɑːst/` (UK), :code:`/kæst/` (US)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To throw something forcefully.
    2.  (Verb) To shed or discard (skin, a spell, etc.).
    3.  (Verb) To select actors for a play or film.
    4.  (Verb) To shape (metal or other material) by pouring it into a mold while molten.
    5.  (Noun) An object made by casting; a group of actors.

**What it really means**: To "**cast**" has many meanings, including throwing, shedding, selecting actors, or shaping metal. In the example "I preferred to cast my lot among the people of the North," it means to *throw* or *place* one's destiny or allegiance with them.

**When to use it**: Use it for throwing, shaping, selecting actors, or placing one's fate/allegiance.
    * **Common phrases**: "**cast** a shadow," "**cast** a vote," "**cast** doubt," "**cast** iron," "the **cast** of a play."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He **cast** the fishing line into the lake."
        * "The director began to **cast** the new movie."
        * "**With the two sections bitterly arrayed against each other, I preferred to cast my lot among the people of the North.**"

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Throw, hurl, toss, shed, mold, shape, assign. (Noun) Mold, shape, actors, troupe.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Catch, retain, gather.
**Where it comes from**: Old Norse *kasta* (to throw).


.. _deliberate:

================================================================================
Deliberate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈlɪbərət/` (Adjective), :code:`/dɪˈlɪbəreɪt/` (Verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Adjective) Done consciously and intentionally; carefully considered.
    2.  (Adjective) Slow and unhurried, especially in movement or action.
    3.  (Verb) To engage in long and careful consideration.

**What it really means**: As an adjective, "**deliberate**" means intentional and well-thought-out, or slow and careful. As a verb, it means to think about something very carefully and thoroughly before making a decision.

**When to use it**: Use it for intentional actions, careful thought, or slow movement.
    * **Common phrases**: "**deliberate** act," "**deliberate** pace," "**deliberate** on."
    * **Examples**:
        * "It was a **deliberate** attempt to mislead the public."
        * "She walked with slow, **deliberate** steps."
        * "The jury will **deliberate** for several hours before reaching a verdict."

**Synonyms**: (Adjective) Intentional, planned, purposeful, thoughtful, careful, slow, measured. (Verb) Consider, ponder, reflect, discuss.
**Opposite words**: (Adjective) Accidental, unintentional, impulsive, hasty, rushed. (Verb) Rush, decide quickly.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *deliberare* (to weigh, consider carefully).


.. _deliberation:

================================================================================
Deliberation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˌlɪbəˈreɪʃn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: Long and careful consideration or discussion.

**What it really means**: "**Deliberation**" is the noun form of "deliberate." It refers to the process of thinking or discussing something very carefully and thoroughly, often before making an important decision. It implies a thoughtful and unhurried consideration of all aspects.

**When to use it**: Use it for careful thought or discussion.
    * **Common phrases**: "after much **deliberation**," "careful **deliberation**," "process of **deliberation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "After much **deliberation**, the committee decided to approve the proposal."
        * "The judge needed more time for **deliberation** before sentencing."
        * "**I parted with Mrs. Davis kindly, half promising to join her in the South if further deliberation should induce me to change my views.**"

**Synonyms**: Consideration, thought, discussion, reflection, contemplation, consultation.
**Opposite words**: Haste, impulsiveness, rashness, spontaneity.
**Where it comes from**: From the verb "deliberate."

.. _intervene:

================================================================================
Intervene
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪntərˈviːn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To come between so as to prevent or alter a result or course of events; to occur in time between events.

**What it really means**: To "**intervene**" means to come between two things, people, or events, often to change the outcome or course of action. It can also mean simply to happen in the time between two other events.

**When to use it**: Use it for stepping in to change something, or for events happening in between others.
    * **Common phrases**: "**intervene** in a conflict," "**intervene** to help," "time **intervenes**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The police had to **intervene** to stop the fight."
        * "**Years of excitement, years of bloodshed, and hundreds of thousands of graves intervene between the months I spent in the family and now.**"
        * "The government decided to **intervene** in the failing economy."

**Synonyms**: Interfere, mediate, intercede, arbitrate, occur between, come between.
**Opposite words**: Withdraw, leave alone, stand by.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *intervenire* (to come between), from *inter-* (between) + *venire* (to come).


.. _in_view_of:

================================================================================
In view of
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪn vjuː ɒv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Idiom* (prepositional phrase)
* **Simple Meaning**: Considering; because of; taking into account.

**What it really means**: "**In view of**" means considering a particular fact or situation, or because of it. It introduces a reason or a context for what follows, indicating that something is being done or said with that fact in mind.

**When to use it**: Use it to introduce a reason or context for a statement.
    * **Examples**:
        * "**In view of** the recent safety concerns, the company decided to halt production."
        * "**The years have brought many changes; and in view of these terrible changes even I, who was once a slave, who have been punished with the cruel lash, who have experienced the heart and soul tortures of a slave’s life, can say to Mr. Jefferson Davis, “Peace! you have suffered! Go in peace.”**"
        * "**In view of** your excellent qualifications, we are pleased to offer you the position."

**Synonyms**: Considering, given, because of, on account of, taking into account, in light of.
**Opposite words**: Regardless of, despite.
**Where it comes from**: Literal meaning of "in sight of," extended to "taking into consideration."


.. _wax:

================================================================================
Wax
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/wæks/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A sticky, yellowish, malleable substance secreted by bees as material for honeycomb, or a similar substance obtained from plants or manufactured.
    2.  (Verb) To cover or treat (something) with wax.
    3.  (Verb) (Of the moon) To appear to increase in size.
    4.  (Verb) To become or grow (e.g., "wax lyrical").

**What it really means**: "**Wax**" is a soft, moldable substance, often used for candles or polishing. As a verb, it means to apply wax, or for something to grow or increase (like the moon or emotions).

**When to use it**: Use it for the substance, applying it, or for things increasing/growing.
    * **Common phrases**: "beeswax," "earwax," "**wax** figure," "**wax** and wane."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The candle was made of scented **wax**."
        * "**In one part of the building was a wax figure of Jefferson Davis.**"
        * "The moon will **wax** until it's full."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Paraffin, beeswax. (Verb) Polish, coat, grow, increase.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Wane (for moon), decrease.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *weax* (wax).


.. _garment:

================================================================================
Garment
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɡɑːrmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: An item of clothing.

**What it really means**: A "**garment**" is simply a piece of clothing. It's often used in a slightly more formal or general way than "clothes."

**When to use it**: Use it as a formal or general term for an item of clothing.
    * **Common phrases**: "outer **garment**," "protective **garment**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She carefully selected each **garment** for her trip."
        * "The museum displayed ancient **garments** from various cultures."
        * "**In one part of the building was a wax figure of Jefferson Davis, dressed in a long, flowing garment.**"

**Synonyms**: Clothing, attire, apparel, dress, outfit, costume, article of clothing.
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites, as it's a specific item).
**Where it comes from**: Old French *garnement* (clothing), from *garnir* (to furnish, equip).


.. _coincidence:

================================================================================
Coincidence
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəʊˈɪnsɪdəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: A remarkable concurrence of events or circumstances without apparent causal connection.

**What it really means**: A "**coincidence**" is when two or more things happen at the same time or in a way that seems connected, but there's no obvious reason or cause for them to be linked. It's often surprising or unexpected.

**When to use it**: Use it for surprising, uncaused simultaneous events.
    * **Common phrases**: "by **coincidence**," "pure **coincidence**," "strange **coincidence**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "It was a strange **coincidence** that we both chose the same vacation spot."
        * "By sheer **coincidence**, I ran into my old friend at the airport."
        * "**Be this as it may, the coincidence is none the less striking and curious.**"

**Synonyms**: Chance, accident, fluke, serendipity, synchronicity, concurrence.
**Opposite words**: Design, intention, planning, cause.
**Where it comes from**: From Latin *coincidere* (to fall together, agree).


.. _none_the_less:

================================================================================
None the less
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/nʌn ðə lɛs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb* (phrase)
* **Simple Meaning**: In spite of that; nevertheless; however.

**What it really means**: "**None the less**" is used to introduce a statement that contrasts with what has just been said, but without contradicting it. It means "despite what has just been mentioned" or "even so." It emphasizes that something is still true or important despite a preceding point.

**When to use it**: Use it to introduce a contrasting but still true point.
    * **Examples**:
        * "The journey was long and difficult; **none the less**, we arrived safely."
        * "She was exhausted, but **none the less** determined to finish the race."
        * "**Be this as it may, the coincidence is none the less striking and curious.**"

**Synonyms**: Nevertheless, however, nonetheless, even so, still, yet, notwithstanding.
**Opposite words**: Consequently, therefore, as a result.
**Where it comes from**: From "none" (not at all) + "the less" (less).



.. _petulant:

================================================================================
Petulant
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpɛtjʊlənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of a person or their manner) Childishly sulky or bad-tempered.

**What it really means**: "**Petulant**" describes someone who is easily annoyed or upset, especially in a childish way. They might complain or act sulky when things don't go their way, showing a lack of maturity in handling minor frustrations.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is irritable or sulky in a childish manner.
    * **Common phrases**: "**petulant** child," "**petulant** tone," "**petulant** outburst."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The toddler became **petulant** when he didn't get his toy."
        * "She responded to the criticism with a **petulant** sigh."
        * "His **petulant** refusal to cooperate made the meeting difficult."

**Synonyms**: Sulky, peevish, bad-tempered, irritable, cross, querulous, fractious.
**Opposite words**: Patient, good-tempered, cheerful, agreeable, amiable.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *petulans* (impudent, saucy), from *petere* (to seek, attack).


.. _thrust:

================================================================================
Thrust
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/θrʌst/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To push (something or someone) suddenly or violently in a specified direction.
    2.  (Verb) To push or drive (a knife or other pointed object) into something.
    3.  (Noun) A sudden or violent push.
    4.  (Noun) The main point or aim of an argument, policy, or plan.

**What it really means**: To "**thrust**" means to push something with sudden force, either physically or figuratively. It implies a forceful, direct movement or a main driving force behind something.

**When to use it**: Use it for forceful pushing, or the main point/force of something.
    * **Common phrases**: "**thrust** a knife," "**thrust** forward," "main **thrust**," "**thrust** into power."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He **thrust** his hands into his pockets."
        * "The main **thrust** of the argument was economic reform."
        * "The engine's powerful **thrust** propelled the rocket upwards."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Push, shove, propel, jab, lunge, force. (Noun) Push, shove, force, drive, impetus, gist, core.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Pull, withdraw, retreat.
**Where it comes from**: Old Norse *þrysta* (to thrust).


.. _ferry:

================================================================================
Ferry
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɛri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A boat or ship for conveying passengers and goods, especially over a relatively short distance and as a regular public service.
    2.  (Verb) To transport (someone or something) by ferry or by boat or aircraft.

**What it really means**: A "**ferry**" is a boat that carries people or vehicles across a body of water, usually on a regular route. As a verb, it means to transport someone or something by such a boat, or by other means like a small plane.

**When to use it**: Use it for water transport or the act of carrying across.
    * **Common phrases**: "car **ferry**," "take the **ferry**," "**ferry** across."
    * **Examples**:
        * "We took the **ferry** across the lake to the island."
        * "The small plane was used to **ferry** supplies to remote villages."
        * "The **ferry** service runs every hour during peak season."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Boat, ship, vessel. (Verb) Transport, convey, shuttle, carry.
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites).
**Where it comes from**: Old English *ferian* (to carry, convey).


.. _faint:

================================================================================
Faint
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/feɪnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word), *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Adjective) (Of a sight, sound, or smell) Barely perceptible; indistinct.
    2.  (Adjective) Feeling weak and dizzy and about to lose consciousness.
    3.  (Verb) To lose consciousness temporarily.
    4.  (Noun) An act of fainting.

**What it really means**: "**Faint**" describes something that is weak, unclear, or barely noticeable (like a sound or smell). It also describes feeling dizzy and about to pass out, or the act of losing consciousness.

**When to use it**: Use it for weak perception, or for losing consciousness.
    * **Common phrases**: "**faint** smell," "**faint** hope," "feel **faint**," "**faint** with hunger."
    * **Examples**:
        * "I heard a **faint** sound in the distance."
        * "She felt **faint** and had to sit down."
        * "He **fainted** from the heat."

**Synonyms**: (Adjective) Indistinct, dim, weak, vague, dizzy, weak. (Verb) Pass out, collapse. (Noun) Blackout.
**Opposite words**: (Adjective) Clear, strong, distinct, conscious, vigorous. (Verb) Revive, awaken.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *feint* (feigned, lazy).




.. _prospective:

================================================================================
Prospective
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prəˈspɛktɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of a person) Expected or expecting to be something particular in the future; likely to happen at a future date.

**What it really means**: "**Prospective**" describes something that is likely to happen in the future, or someone who is likely to become something. It implies a future possibility or expectation.

**When to use it**: Use it for things or people expected in the future.
    * **Common phrases**: "**prospective** buyer," "**prospective** student," "**prospective** changes."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The company interviewed several **prospective** candidates for the job."
        * "They discussed the **prospective** benefits of the new project."
        * "We are looking forward to our **prospective** trip next summer."

**Synonyms**: Potential, future, coming, expected, likely, imminent.
**Opposite words**: Past, former, unlikely.
**Where it comes from**: From "prospect" + "-ive."


.. _perspective:

================================================================================
Perspective
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pərˈspɛktɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  A particular attitude toward or way of regarding something; a point of view.
    2.  The art of drawing solid objects on a two-dimensional surface so as to give the right impression of their height, width, depth, and position in relation to each other when viewed from a particular point.
    3.  A true understanding of the relative importance of things; a sense of proportion.

**What it really means**: "**Perspective**" is a way of looking at something, a point of view, or the ability to understand how different things relate to each other in importance. It's about how you see or interpret the world or a situation.

**When to use it**: Use it for points of view, artistic representation of depth, or understanding relative importance.
    * **Common phrases**: "gain **perspective**," "different **perspectives**," "put into **perspective**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Try to see the situation from her **perspective**."
        * "The artist used linear **perspective** to create depth in the painting."
        * "Losing his job helped him put his problems into **perspective**."

**Synonyms**: Viewpoint, outlook, angle, standpoint, understanding, discernment, proportion.
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites, as it's a way of seeing/understanding).
**Where it comes from**: Latin *perspectiva* (optics), from *perspicere* (to look through, see clearly).


.. _consent:

================================================================================
Consent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈsɛnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) Permission for something to happen or agreement to do something.
    2.  (Verb) To give permission for something to happen or agree to do something.

**What it really means**: "**Consent**" is permission or agreement. To "**consent**" means to give that permission or agree to something. It implies voluntary agreement to an action or proposal.

**When to use it**: Use it for giving permission or agreeing.
    * **Common phrases**: "informed **consent**," "mutual **consent**," "give **consent**," "**consent** to."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The doctor obtained the patient's **consent** before the surgery."
        * "She did not **consent** to the terms of the agreement."
        * "Entry is by invitation only, with the full **consent** of the organizers."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Permission, agreement, approval, assent, authorization. (Verb) Agree, permit, allow, approve, assent.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Refusal, denial, dissent. (Verb) Refuse, deny, object, forbid.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *consentire* (to agree, feel together).


.. _dissipate:

================================================================================
Dissipate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɪsɪpeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Of a feeling or other intangible thing) To disappear or cause to disappear.
    2.  (Of a crowd) To disperse or cause to disperse.
    3.  To waste or squander (money, energy, or resources).

**What it really means**: To "**dissipate**" means to scatter or spread out and disappear, or to waste something like energy or money. It implies a gradual fading away or squandering.

**When to use it**: Use it for feelings/crowds disappearing, or wasting resources.
    * **Common phrases**: "**dissipate** fear," "**dissipate** fog," "**dissipate** energy."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The morning fog began to **dissipate** as the sun rose."
        * "His anger slowly **dissipated**."
        * "He **dissipated** his inheritance on gambling and lavish parties."

**Synonyms**: Disperse, scatter, vanish, disappear, evaporate, squander, waste, fritter away.
**Opposite words**: Gather, accumulate, concentrate, collect, save, conserve.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *dissipare* (to scatter, disperse).


.. _disperse:

================================================================================
Disperse
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈspɜːrs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To scatter, spread over a wide area, or go in different directions.

**What it really means**: To "**disperse**" means to scatter or spread out over a wide area, or for a group of people to go in different directions. It implies a movement away from a central point.

**When to use it**: Use it for scattering, spreading out, or crowds breaking up.
    * **Common phrases**: "**disperse** a crowd," "**disperse** seeds," "**disperse** information."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The police used tear gas to **disperse** the rioters."
        * "The wind helped to **disperse** the seeds across the field."
        * "The clouds began to **disperse**, revealing the blue sky."

**Synonyms**: Scatter, spread, break up, separate, diffuse, disseminate.
**Opposite words**: Gather, assemble, collect, concentrate, accumulate.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *dispergere* (to scatter), from *dis-* (apart) + *spargere* (to scatter).


.. _mantle:

================================================================================
Mantle
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmæntl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A loose sleeveless cloak or shawl, worn especially by women.
    2.  (Noun) A covering of something.
    3.  (Noun) An important role or responsibility that passes from one person to another.
    4.  (Verb) To cover or envelop.

**What it really means**: A "**mantle**" is a type of loose cloak, or a covering. Figuratively, it can mean an important role or responsibility that is passed on. As a verb, it means to cover or envelop.

**When to use it**: Use it for cloaks, coverings, or important roles.
    * **Common phrases**: "take on the **mantle**," "a **mantle** of snow," "under the **mantle** of darkness."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She wore a beautiful velvet **mantle** to the ball."
        * "A thick **mantle** of snow covered the landscape."
        * "He proudly took on the **mantle** of leadership."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Cloak, cape, covering, shroud, responsibility, role. (Verb) Cover, envelop, shroud, cloak.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Uncovering, exposure.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *mantel*, from Latin *mantellum* (cloak).


.. _settle_up:

================================================================================
Settle up (phrasal verb)
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɛtl ʌp/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Phrasal verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To pay money that is owed; to pay a debt.

**What it really means**: To "**settle up**" means to pay all the money that you owe to someone, or to pay a bill. It implies resolving a financial obligation.

**When to use it**: Use it for paying debts or bills.
    * **Examples**:
        * "Let's **settle up** before we leave the restaurant."
        * "I need to **settle up** with my landlord by the end of the month."
        * "He finally **settled up** all his outstanding debts."

**Synonyms**: Pay, pay off, square accounts, clear a debt, discharge a debt.
**Opposite words**: Borrow, owe, incur debt.
**Where it comes from**: From "settle" (to resolve) + "up" (completion).


.. _vouch:

================================================================================
Vouch
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/vaʊtʃ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To assert or confirm as a result of one's own experience that something is true or accurate; to guarantee.

**What it really means**: To "**vouch**" means to confirm that something is true or accurate because you have personal knowledge or experience of it. It implies giving a strong personal guarantee or endorsement.

**When to use it**: Use it for guaranteeing truth or reliability based on personal knowledge.
    * **Common phrases**: "**vouch** for," "**vouch** that."
    * **Examples**:
        * "I can **vouch** for his honesty; he's always been trustworthy."
        * "Can you **vouch** for the authenticity of this document?"
        * "She was willing to **vouch** that he was at home that night."

**Synonyms**: Guarantee, confirm, affirm, attest, certify, testify, endorse, warrant.
**Opposite words**: Discredit, deny, contradict.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *voucher* (to summon, call to witness).


.. _throb:

================================================================================
Throb
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/θrɒb/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To beat or pulsate with a strong, regular rhythm.
    2.  (Verb) To feel a pain in a series of regular beats.
    3.  (Noun) A strong, regular beat or pulsation.

**What it really means**: To "**throb**" means to beat or pulsate strongly and regularly, often associated with pain (like a headache) or a strong engine. It implies a rhythmic, intense sensation or sound.

**When to use it**: Use it for pulsating sensations or strong, rhythmic beats.
    * **Common phrases**: "headache **throbs**," "heart **throbs**," "engine **throbs**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "His head began to **throb** with a dull ache."
        * "She could feel her heart **throbbing** in her chest."
        * "The powerful engine **throbbed** beneath the deck."

**Synonyms**: Pulsate, beat, pound, pulsate, vibrate, ache, palpitate.
**Opposite words**: Be still, calm, quiet.
**Where it comes from**: Old English *þrobian* (to throb).


.. _scheme:

================================================================================
Scheme
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/skiːm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A large-scale systematic plan or arrangement for attaining some particular object or putting a particular idea into effect.
    2.  (Noun) A secret or underhand plan; a plot.
    3.  (Verb) To make secret and underhand plans.

**What it really means**: A "**scheme**" is a detailed plan, sometimes a legitimate and large-scale one (like a government scheme), but often implies a clever, secret, or even dishonest plan or plot. As a verb, it means to make such plans.

**When to use it**: Use it for detailed plans (sometimes negative) or secret plots.
    * **Common phrases**: "housing **scheme**," "get-rich-quick **scheme**," "**scheme** against."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The government launched a new **scheme** to help first-time homebuyers."
        * "They were accused of a **scheme** to defraud investors."
        * "He spent weeks **scheming** how to get revenge."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Plan, plot, project, program, design, conspiracy, stratagem. (Verb) Plot, conspire, plan, contrive.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Disorder, spontaneity.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *schema* (figure, shape), from Greek *skhēma*.


.. _compound:

================================================================================
Compound
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɒmpaʊnd/` (Noun/Adjective), :code:`/kəmˈpaʊnd/` (Verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Adjective* (describing word), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A thing that is composed of two or more separate elements; a mixture.
    2.  (Noun) A fenced or walled-in area containing a group of buildings.
    3.  (Adjective) Made up of two or more parts or elements.
    4.  (Verb) To make (something bad) worse; to aggravate.
    5.  (Verb) To mix or combine.

**What it really means**: A "**compound**" is something made of multiple parts or elements. As a verb, it means to make something worse (aggravate) or to combine things. It can also refer to an enclosed area.

**When to use it**: Use it for mixtures, enclosed areas, making worse, or combining.
    * **Common phrases**: "chemical **compound**," "**compound** interest," "**compound** a problem," "family **compound**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Water is a **compound** of hydrogen and oxygen."
        * "His refusal to apologize only **compounded** the problem."
        * "The family lived in a large walled **compound**."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Mixture, blend, complex, enclosure. (Verb) Aggravate, worsen, intensify, combine, mix.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Simplify, alleviate, separate, decompose.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *compondre*, from Latin *componere* (to put together).


.. _heritage:

================================================================================
Heritage
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɛrɪtɪdʒ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: Property that is or may be inherited; valued objects and qualities such as cultural traditions, unspoiled countryside, and historic buildings that have been passed down from previous generations.

**What it really means**: "**Heritage**" refers to traditions, qualities, or property that belong to the culture or history of a particular group, society, or nation, and are passed down from past generations. It's what we inherit from the past that is worth preserving.

**When to use it**: Use it for cultural traditions, historical sites, or inherited property.
    * **Common phrases**: "cultural **heritage**," "national **heritage**," "preserve **heritage**," "rich **heritage**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The city is proud of its rich cultural **heritage**."
        * "Many historical buildings are part of our national **heritage**."
        * "She inherited a small fortune, but her true **heritage** was her family's strong work ethic."

**Synonyms**: Tradition, legacy, inheritance, birthright, patrimony, ancestry.
**Opposite words**: (No direct opposites).
**Where it comes from**: Old French *heritage*, from Latin *hereditas* (inheritance).


.. _taint:

================================================================================
Taint
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/teɪnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To contaminate or pollute (something).
    2.  (Verb) To affect with a undesirable quality or characteristic.
    3.  (Noun) A trace of a bad or undesirable quality or substance.

**What it really means**: To "**taint**" means to spoil, contaminate, or corrupt something, often with a negative quality or substance. It implies a stain, a blemish, or a loss of purity/goodness.

**When to use it**: Use it for spoiling, contaminating, or corrupting.
    * **Common phrases**: "**taint** reputation," "**taint** food," "a **taint** of corruption."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The scandal will **taint** his reputation for years."
        * "The water supply was **tainted** by chemicals."
        * "There was a faint **taint** of garlic in the sauce."

**Synonyms**: Contaminate, pollute, corrupt, spoil, blemish, stain, defile, mar.
**Opposite words**: Purify, cleanse, enhance, improve.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *teint* (a dye, stain).


.. _diminish:

================================================================================
Diminish
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈmɪnɪʃ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**: To make or become less; to reduce or decrease.

**What it really means**: To "**diminish**" means to make something smaller, less important, or less intense. It implies a reduction in size, amount, or strength.

**When to use it**: Use it for making something smaller, less, or weaker.
    * **Common phrases**: "**diminish** in size," "**diminish** power," "**diminish** importance."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The pain began to **diminish** after taking the medication."
        * "His influence in the company has **diminished** over the years."
        * "We must not **diminish** the importance of education."

**Synonyms**: Decrease, reduce, lessen, shrink, dwindle, abate, curtail.
**Opposite words**: Increase, enlarge, expand, grow, strengthen, enhance.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *diminuer*, from Latin *deminuere* (to lessen).


.. _sneer:

================================================================================
Sneer
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/snɪər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To smile or speak in a contemptuous or mocking manner.
    2.  (Noun) A contemptuous or mocking smile, remark, or tone.

**What it really means**: To "**sneer**" means to show contempt or disdain through a facial expression (a curled lip) or a mocking tone of voice. It implies a scornful and disrespectful attitude.

**When to use it**: Use it for showing contempt or mockery.
    * **Common phrases**: "**sneer** at," "with a **sneer**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He **sneered** at their naive suggestions."
        * "She gave him a cold **sneer** before turning away."
        * "Don't **sneer** at people just because they have different opinions."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Scoff, mock, ridicule, jeer, deride, disdain. (Noun) Scoff, taunt, gibe, smirk, disdain.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Smile, praise, admire, respect.
**Where it comes from**: Probably from Middle English *sneren* (to snort, curl the lip).


.. _proposition:

================================================================================
Proposition
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌprɒpəˈzɪʃn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (action word)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Noun) A statement or assertion that expresses a judgment or opinion.
    2.  (Noun) A suggested scheme or plan of action, especially in business.
    3.  (Verb) To make a suggestion of sexual intercourse to (someone). (Informal, often offensive)

**What it really means**: A "**proposition**" is a statement, a proposal, or a suggested plan. As a verb, it means to suggest something, though informally it can refer to an unwelcome sexual advance.

**When to use it**: Use it for statements, proposals, or suggested plans. Be cautious with the informal verb meaning.
    * **Common phrases**: "business **proposition**," "make a **proposition**," "accept a **proposition**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The company put forward a new business **proposition**."
        * "He presented a logical **proposition** to support his argument."
        * "She rejected his inappropriate **proposition**."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Proposal, suggestion, plan, idea, statement, assertion, offer. (Verb) Propose, suggest, offer.
**Opposite words**: (Noun) Rejection, denial.
**Where it comes from**: Latin *propositio* (a setting forth), from *proponere* (to put forward).


.. _decline:

================================================================================
Decline
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈklaɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable, uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To politely refuse (an offer or invitation).
    2.  (Verb) To (especially of a quantity or condition) decrease; diminish.
    3.  (Noun) A gradual and continuous loss of strength, numbers, quality, or value.

**What it really means**: To "**decline**" means to politely refuse something, or to decrease in quantity, quality, or strength. As a noun, it refers to a gradual decrease or deterioration.

**When to use it**: Use it for polite refusal or for a decrease/deterioration.
    * **Common phrases**: "**decline** an offer," "health **declines**," "in **decline**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She **declined** the invitation to the party."
        * "The company's profits have been **declining** for several quarters."
        * "The area has been in economic **decline** for years."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Refuse, reject, turn down, decrease, diminish, fall, worsen. (Noun) Decrease, reduction, deterioration, downturn.
**Opposite words**: (Verb) Accept, agree, increase, improve, rise. (Noun) Increase, growth, improvement, rise.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *decliner*, from Latin *declinare* (to bend down, turn aside).


.. _broach:

================================================================================
Broach
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/brəʊtʃ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (action word), *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**:
    1.  (Verb) To raise (a sensitive or difficult subject) for discussion.
    2.  (Verb) To pierce (a cask) to draw out liquid.
    3.  (Noun) A drill or boring tool.

**What it really means**: To "**broach**" means to bring up a sensitive or difficult topic for discussion for the first time. It implies carefully introducing a subject that might be uncomfortable. It can also mean to pierce a container to draw liquid.

**When to use it**: Use it for introducing sensitive topics.
    * **Common phrases**: "**broach** a subject," "**broach** the topic."
    * **Examples**:
        * "He found it difficult to **broach** the subject of his financial problems with his parents."
        * "She waited for the right moment to **broach** the topic of a raise."
        * "The committee decided to **broach** the controversial issue at the next meeting."

**Synonyms**: Introduce, raise, bring up, mention, open, propose.
**Opposite words**: Avoid, suppress, ignore, conceal.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *brochier* (to pierce, prick).


.. _precious:

================================================================================
Precious
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɛʃəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Of great value; not to be wasted or treated carelessly; greatly loved or cherished.

**What it really means**: "**Precious**" describes something that is very valuable, either in terms of monetary worth or because it is greatly loved, cherished, or important. It implies something rare, highly esteemed, or not to be taken for granted.

**When to use it**: Use it for things of high value, great importance, or deep affection.
    * **Common phrases**: "**precious** metals," "**precious** memories," "**precious** time," "my **precious**."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Gold and diamonds are **precious** metals."
        * "Family photographs are among my most **precious** possessions."
        * "Time is a **precious** resource that should not be wasted."

**Synonyms**: Valuable, cherished, beloved, treasured, rare, costly, esteemed, invaluable.
**Opposite words**: Worthless, cheap, common, valueless, unimportant.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *precios*, from Latin *pretiosus* (valuable), from *pretium* (price).


.. _preciousness:

================================================================================
Preciousness
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɛʃəsnəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The quality of being of great value or greatly cherished; excessive refinement or affectation.

**What it really means**: "**Preciousness**" refers to the quality of being very valuable or deeply cherished. It can also, less positively, refer to an excessive or artificial refinement, or being overly delicate or sentimental.

**When to use it**: Use it for the quality of being valuable/cherished, or for excessive refinement.
    * **Examples**:
        * "The **preciousness** of the ancient artifact was evident in its intricate design."
        * "She admired the **preciousness** of their shared moments together."
        * "Some critics found his writing style to have an air of **preciousness**."

**Synonyms**: Value, dearness, cherished quality, rarity, affectation, artificiality, daintiness.
**Opposite words**: Worthlessness, commonness, naturalness, coarseness.
**Where it comes from**: From "precious" + "-ness."


.. _sullen:

================================================================================
Sullen
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsʌlən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* (describing word)
* **Simple Meaning**: Bad-tempered and sulky; gloomy.

**What it really means**: "**Sullen**" describes someone who is silently resentful, bad-tempered, and gloomy. They often show their unhappiness by being quiet and unresponsive, rather than openly expressing their anger.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is silently moody, resentful, or gloomy.
    * **Common phrases**: "**sullen** mood," "**sullen** expression," "**sullen** silence."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The teenager sat in **sullen** silence after being grounded."
        * "He gave her a **sullen** look when she asked him to help."
        * "The sky was **sullen** and grey, threatening rain."

**Synonyms**: Sulky, moody, glum, gloomy, morose, resentful, sour, dour.
**Opposite words**: Cheerful, happy, bright, amiable, friendly, sociable.
**Where it comes from**: Old French *soulein* (solitary), from Latin *solus* (alone).
