=========================================
CHAPTER ONE: Acquiring the Basic Skills
=========================================

I started teaching classes in public speaking in 1912, the year the Titanic went down in the icy waters of the North Atlantic. Since then, more than seven hundred and fifty thousand people have been graduated from these classes.

In the demonstration meetings  :ref:`preceding <precede>` the first session of the Dale Carnegie Course, people are given the opportunity of telling why they intend to :ref:`enroll <enroll>` and what they hope to gain from this training. Naturally, the phraseology varies; but the central desire, the basic want in the vast majority of cases, remains surprisingly the same: "When I am called upon to stand up and speak, I become so self-conscious, so frightened, that I can't think clearly, can't concentrate, can't remember what I intended to say. I want to gain self-confidence, poise, and the ability to **think on my feet**. I want to get my thoughts together in logical order, and I want to be able to talk clearly and convincingly before a business or social group."

Doesn't this sound familiar? Haven't you experienced these same feelings of **inadequacy**? Wouldn't you give a small fortune to have the ability to speak convincingly and persuasively in public? I am sure you would. The very fact that you have begun reading the  pages of this book is proof of your interest in acquiring the ability to speak effectively.

I know what you are going to say, what you would say if you could talk to me: "But Mr. Carnegie, do you really think I could develop the confidence to get up and face a group of people and address them in a  :ref:`enroll <coherent>`, fluent manner?"

I have spent nearly all my life helping people get rid of their fears and develop courage and confidence. I could fill many books with the stories of the  :ref:`miracles <miracle>` that have taken place in my classes. It is not, therefore, a question of my thinking. I know you can, if you practice the directions and suggestions that you will find in this book.

Is there the faintest shadow of a reason why you should not be able to think as well in a :ref:`perpendicular <perpendicular>` position before an audience as you can sitting down? Is there any reason why you should play host to butterflies in your stomach and become a victim of the "trembles" when you get up to address an audience? Surely, you realize that this condition can be :ref:`remedied <remedy>`, that training and practice will wear away your audience- :ref:`fright <fright>` and give you self-confidence.

This book will help you to achieve that goal. It is not an ordinary textbook. It is not filled with rules concerning the mechanics of speaking. It does not :ref:`dwell on <dwell_on>` the physiological aspects of :ref:`vocal <vocal>` production and :ref:`articulation <articulation>` . **It is the distillation of a lifetime spent in training adults in effective speaking**. It starts with you as you are, and from that :ref:`premise <premise>` works naturally to the conclusion of what you want to be. All you have to do is co-operate—follow the suggestions in this book, apply them in every speaking situation, and :ref:`persevere <persevere>`.


In order to get the most out of this book, and to get it with rapidity and dispatch, you will find these four guideposts useful:

FIRST:TAKE HEART FROM THEEXPERIENCE OF OTHERS
=============================================================

There is no such animal, in or out of :ref:`captivity <captivity>`, as a born public speaker. In those periods of history when public speaking was a refined art that demanded close attention to the laws of :ref:`rhetoric <rhetoric>` and the :ref:`niceties<nicety>` of delivery, it was even more difficult to be born a public speaker. Now we think of public speaking as a kind of enlarged conversation. Gone forever is the old :ref:`grandiloquent<grandiloquent>`  style and the stentorian voice. What we like to hear at our dinner meetings, in our church services, on our TV sets and radios, is straightforward speech, :ref:`conceived<conceive>`  in common sense and dedicated to the :ref:`proposition<proposition>`  that we like speakers to talk with, and not at, us.

Despite what many school texts would lead us to believe, public speaking is not a closed art, to be mastered only after years of perfecting the voice and struggling with the mysteries of rhetoric. I have spent almost all of my teaching career proving to people that it is easy to speak in public, provided they follow a few simple, but important, rules. When I started to teach at the 125th Street YMCA in New York City back in 1912, I didn't know this any more than my first students knew it. I taught those first classes pretty much the way I had been taught in my college years in Warrensburg, Missouri. But I soon discovered that I was on the wrong track; I was trying to teach adults in the business world as though they were college freshmen. I saw the :ref:`futility<futility>` of using Webster, Burke, Pitt, and O'Connell as examples to :ref:`imitate<imitate>`. What the members of my classes wanted was enough courage to stand on their hind legs and make a clear, coherent report at their next business meeting. It wasn't long before I threw the textbooks out the window, got right up there on the :ref:`podium<podium>` and, with a few simple ideas, worked with those fellows until they could give their reports in a convincing manner. It worked, because they kept coming back for more.

I wish I could give you a chance to browse through the files of testimonial letters in my home or in the offices of my representatives in various parts of the world. They come from industrial leaders whose names are frequently mentioned in the business section of The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal, from governors of states and members of parliaments, from college presidents, and from :ref:`celebrities<celebrity>` in the world of entertainment. There are thousands more from housewives, ministers, teachers, young men and women whose names are not well known yet, even in their own communities, executives and executive trainees, laborers, skilled and unskilled, union men, college students, and business women. All of these people felt a need for self-confidence and the ability to express themselves acceptably in public. They were so grateful for having achieved both that they took the time to write me letters of appreciation.

Of the thousands of people I have taught, one example comes to mind as I write because of the dramatic impact it had on me at the time. Some years ago, shortly after he joined my course, D. W. Ghent, a successful businessman in Philadelphia, invited me to lunch. He leaned across the table and said: "I have :ref:`sidestepped<sidestep>` every opportunity to speak to various gatherings, Mr. Carnegie, and there have been many. But now I am chairman of a **board** of college trustees. I must :ref:`preside<preside>` at their meetings. Do you think it will be possible for me to learn to speak at this late date in life?"

I assured him, on the basis of my experience with men in similar positions who had been members of my classes, that there was no doubt in my mind that he would succeed.

About three years later we lunched together again at the Manufacturers' Club. We ate in the same dining room and at the very same table we had occupied at our first meeting. Reminding him of our former conversation, I asked him whether my prediction had come true. He smiled, took a little red-backed notebook out of his pocket, and showed me a list of speaking engagements for the next several months. "The ability to make these talks," he confessed, "the pleasure I get in giving them, the additional service I can render in the community—these are among the most :ref:`gratifying<gratify>` things in my life."

But that was not all. With a feeling of justifiable pride, Mr. Ghent then played his ace card. His church group had invited the prime minister of England to address a :ref:`convocation<convocation>` in Philadelphia. And the Philadelphian selected to make the introduction of the distinguished statesman, on one of his rare trips to America, was none other than Mr. D. W. Ghent.

This was the man who had leaned across that same table less than three years before and asked me whether I thought he would ever be able to talk in public!

Here is another example. The late David M. Goodrich, Chairman of the Board of the B. F. Goodrich Company, came to my office one day. "All my life," he began, "I have never been able to make a talk without being frozen with fear. As Board Chairman I have to preside at our meetings. I have known all the board members :ref:`intimately<intimate>` for years, and I have no trouble talking to them when we are sitting around the table. But the moment I stand up to talk, I am terrified. I can hardly say a word. I have been that way for years. I don't believe you can do anything for me. My trouble is too serious. It has existed too long."

"Well," I said, "if you don't think I can do anything for you, why did you come to see me?"

"For one reason only," he replied. "I have an accountant who takes care of my personal accounting problems. He is a shy chap, and to get into his little office, he has to walk through my office. He has been sneaking through my office for years, looking at the floor and hardly ever saying a word. But lately, he has been transformed. He walks into my office now with his chin up, a light in his eye; and he says, 'Good morning, Mr. Goodrich,' with confidence and spirit. I was astonished at the change. So, I said to him: 'Who has been feeding you meat?' He told me about taking your course of training; and it is only because of the transformation that I have witnessed in that frightened little man that I have come to see you."

I told Mr. Goodrich that if he attended the classes regularly and did what we asked him to do, within a few weeks he would enjoy speaking before audiences.

"If you can do that," he replied, "I'll be one of the happiest men in the country."

He joined the course, made phenomenal progress, and three months later, I invited him to attend a meeting of three thousand people in the ballroom of the Hotel Astor, and talk to them on what he had gotten out of our training. He was sorry—couldn't come—a previous engagement. The next day he phoned me. "I want to apologize," he said. "I have broken that engagement. I'll come and speak for you. I owe it to you. I'll tell the audience what this training did for me. I'll do it with the hope that my story will inspire some of the listeners to get rid of the fears that are devastating their lives."

I asked him to speak for two minutes only. He spoke to three thousand people for eleven minutes.

I have seen thousands of similar miracles worked in my courses. I have seen men and women whose lives were transformed by this training, many of them receiving promotions far beyond their dreams or achieving positions of prominence in their business, profession, and community. Sometimes this has been done by means of a single talk delivered at the right moment. Let me tell you the story of Mario Lazo.

Years ago, I received a cable from Cuba that astonished me. It read: "Unless you cable me to the contrary, I am coming to New York to take training to make a speech." It was signed: "Mario Lazo." Who was he? I wondered! I had never heard of him before.

When Mr. Lazo arrived in New York, he said: "The Havana Country Club is going to celebrate the fiftieth birthday of the founder of the club; and I have been invited to present him with a silver cup and to make the principal talk of the evening. Although I am an :ref:`attorney<attorney>`, I have never made a public talk in my life. I am terrified at the thought of speaking. If I fail, it will be deeply embarrassing to my wife and myself socially; and, in addition, it might lower my :ref:`prestige<prestige>` with my clients. That is why I have come all the way from Cuba for your help. I can stay only three weeks."

During those three weeks, I had Mario Lazo going from one class to another speaking three or four times a night. Three weeks later, he addressed the distinguished gathering at the Havana Country Club. His address was so outstanding that Time Magazine reported it under the head of foreign news and described Mario Lazo as a "silver-tongued :ref:`orator<orator>`."

Sounds like a miracle, doesn't it? It is a miracle—a twentieth-century miracle of conquering fear.

SECOND: KEEP YOUR GOAL BEFORE YOU
==============================================================

When Mr. Ghent spoke of the pleasure his newly acquired skill in public speaking gave him, he touched upon what I believe (more than any other one factor) contributed to his success. It's true he followed the directions and faithfully did the assignments. But I'm sure he did these things because he wanted to do them, and he wanted to do them because he saw himself as a successful speaker. **He projected himself into the future and then worked toward bringing that projection into reality**. That is exactly what you must do.


Concentrate your attention on what self-confidence and the ability to talk more effectively will mean to you. Think of what it may mean to you socially, of the friends it will bring, of your increased capacity to be of service in your :ref:`civic<civic>`, social, or church group, of the influence you will be able to :ref:`exert<exert>` in your business. In short, it will prepare you for leadership.

In an article entitled "Speech and Leadership in Business," S. C. Allyn, Chairman of the Board of the National Cash Register Company and Chairman of UNESCO, wrote in the Quarterly Journal of Speech:

"In the history of our business, many a man has drawn attention to himself by a good job done on the platform. A good many years ago a young man, who was then in charge of a small branch in Kansas, gave a rather unusual talk, and is today our vice-president in charge of sales."

I happen to know that this vicepresident is now the president of the National Cash Register Company.


There is no predicting how far the ability to speak on your feet will take you. One of our graduates, Henry Blackstone, President of the Servo Corporation of America, says, "The ability to communicate effectively with others and win their co-operation is an asset we look for in men moving to the top."

Think of the satisfaction and pleasure that will beyours when you stand up and confidently share yourthoughts and feelings with your audience. I have traveledaround the world several times, but I know of fewthings that give greater delight than holding an audienceby the power of the spoken word. You get a senseof strength, a feeling of power. "Two minutes before Ibegin," said one of my graduates, "I would rather bewhipped than start; but two minutes before I finish, Iwould rather be shot than stop."

Begin now to picture yourself before an audience you might be called upon to address. See yourself stepping forward with confidence, listen to the :ref:`hush<hush>` fall upon the room as you begin, feel the **attentive absorption** of the audience as you :ref:`drive home<drive_home>` drive home point after point, feel the warmth of the applause as you leave the platform, and hear the words of appreciation with which individual members of the audience greet you when the meeting is over. Believe me, there is a magic in it and a never-to-be-forgotten :ref:`thrill<thrill>`.

William James, Harvard's most distinguished professor of psychology, wrote six sentences that could have a profound effect on your life, six sentences that are the open :ref:`sesame<sesame>`  to Ali Baba's treasure cave of courage:

"In almost any subject, your passion for the subject will save you. If you care enough for a result, you will most certainly :ref:`attain<attain>` it. If you wish to be good, you will be good. If you wish to be rich, you will be rich. If you wish to be learned, you will be learned. Only then you must really wish these things and wish them with exclusiveness and not wish one hundred other incompatible things just as strongly."

Learning to speak effectively to groups brings other benefits than merely the ability to make formal public speeches. As a matter of fact, if you never give a formal public speech in your life, the benefits to be :ref:`derived<derive>` from this training are :ref:`manifold<manifold>`. For one thing, public speaking training is the royal road to self-confidence. Once you realize that you can stand up and talk intelligently to a group of people, it is logical to assume that you can talk to individuals with greater confidence and assurance. Many men and women have taken my course in Effective Speaking primarily because they were shy and self-conscious in social groups. When they found they were capable of speaking on their feet to their fellow class members without having the roof fall in, they became aware of the ridiculousness of self-consciousness. They began to impress others, their families, friends, business associates, customers, and clients, with their newly found :ref:`poise<poise>`. Many of our graduates, like Mr. Goodrich, were :ref:`impelled<impel>` to take the course by the remarkable change in the personalities of those around them.

This type of training also affects the personality in ways that are not immediately apparent. Not long ago I asked Dr. David Allman, the Atlantic City surgeon and former president of the American Medical Association, what in his opinion were the benefits of public speaking training in terms of mental and physical health. He smiled and said he could best answer that question by writing a prescription that "no drugstore can fill. It must be filled by the individual; if he thinks he can't, he is wrong."

I have the prescription on my desk. Every time I read it, I am impressed. Here it is, just as Dr. Allman jotted it down:

Try your best to develop an ability to let others look into your head and heart. Learn to make your thoughts, your ideas, clear to others, individually, in groups, in public. You will find, as you improve in your effort to do this, that you—your real self—are making an impression, an impact, on people such as you never made before.

You can :ref:`reap<reap>` a double benefit from this prescription. Your self-confidence strengthens as you learn to speak to others, and your whole personality grows warmer and better. This means that you are better off emotionally, and if you are better off emotionally, you are better off physically. Public speaking in our modern world is for everybody, men and women, young and elderly. I I do not know personally about its advantages to one in business or industry. I only hear that they are great. But I do know its advantages in health. Speak when you can, to a few or to many; you will do it better and better, as I have found out, myself; and you will feel a :ref:`buoyancy<buoyancy>` of spirit, a sense of being a whole, :ref:`rounded person<rounded_person>`, such as you never felt before.

It is a wonderful sense to have, and no :ref:`pill<pill>` ever
made can give it to you.

The second guidepost, then, is to picture yourself as successfully doing what now you fear to do, and to concentrate on the benefits you will receive through your ability to talk acceptably before groups. Remember the words of William James: "If you care enough for a result, you will most certainly attain it."


THIRD: PREDETERMINE YOUR MIND TO SUCCESS
=======================================================================

I was asked once, on a radio program, to tell in three sentences the most important lesson I have ever learned. This is what I said: "The biggest lesson I have ever learned is the :ref:`stupendous<stupendous>` importance of what we think. If I knew what you think, I would know what you are, for your thoughts make you what you are. By changing our thoughts, we can change our lives."


You have set your sights on the goal of increased confidence and more effective communication. From now on, you must think positively, not negatively, about your chances to succeed in this :ref:`endeavor<endeavor>`. You must develop a :ref:`buoyant<buoyancy>` optimism about the outcome of your efforts to speak before groups. You must set the seal of determination upon every word and action that you devote toward the development of this ability. Here is a story that is dramatic proof of the need for resolute determination :ref:`on the part<on_the_part>` of anyone who wants to meet the challenge of more expressive speaking. The man I am writing about has come up the management ladder so far that he has become a bigbusiness legend. But the first time he stood up to speak in college, words failed him. He couldn't get beyond the middle of the five-minute talk his teacher had assigned. His face went white, and he hurried off the platform in tears.


The man who had that experience as a young student didn't let that failure frustrate him. He determined to become a good speaker and didn't stop in that determination until he became a world-respected economic consultant to the government. His name is Clarence B. Randall. In one of his thoughtful books, Freedom's Faith, he has this to say about public speaking:

"I have service stripes all the way up one sleeve and all the way down the other from appearances before luncheons and dinners of manufacturers' associations, Chambers of Commerce, Rotary Clubs, fund-raising campaigns, alumni organizations, and all the rest. I talked myself into World War I by a patriotic address in Escanaba, Michigan; I have barnstormed for charity with Mickey Rooney, and for education with President James Bryant Conant of Harvard and Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins of the University of Chicago; and I have even made an after-dinner speech in very bad French."

"I think I know something about what an audience will listen to, and how they want it said. And there is nothing whatever about it that a man worthy to bear important business responsibility cannot learn if he will"

I agree with Mr. Randall. The will to succeed must be a vital part of the process of becoming an effective speaker. If I could look into your mind and :ref:`ascertain<ascertain>` the strength of your desire and the light and shadow of your thought I could foretell, almost with certainty, the :ref:`swiftness<swift>` of your progress toward your goal of improved communicative skills.

In one of my classes in the Middle West, a man stood up the first night and :ref:`unabashedly<unabashed>` said that as a builder of homes he wouldn't be content until he became a spokesman for the American Home Builders' Association. He wanted nothing more than to go up and down this country and tell everybody he met the problems and achievements of his industry. Joe Haverstick meant what he said. He was the kind of class member that delights an instructor: he was in dead :ref:`earnest<earnest>` . He wanted to be able to talk, not on local issues only, but on national ones, and there was no halfheartedness about his desires. He prepared his talks thoroughly, practiced them carefully, and never missed a single session, though it was the busy season of the year for men in his business. He did precisely what such a class member always does—he progressed at a rate that surprised him. In two months he had become one of the outstanding members of the class. He was voted its president.

The instructor handling that class was in Norfolk, Virginia, about a year later, and this is what he wrote: "I had forgotten all about Joe Haverstick back in Ohio when, one morning while I was having breakfast, I opened the Virginia Pilot. There was a picture of Joe and a :ref:`write-up<write_up>` about him. The night before, he had addressed a large meeting of area builders, and I saw that Joe was not just a spokesman for the National Home Builders' Association; he was its president."


So, to succeed in this work, you need the qualities that are essential in any worthwhile :ref:`endeavor<endeavor>`: desire amounting to enthusiasm, persistence to wear away mountains, and the self-assurance to believe you will succeed.


When Julius Ceasar sailed over the channel from Gaul and landed with his legions in what is now England, what did he do to insure the success of his army? A very clever thing: he halted his soldiers on the chalk cliffs of Dover; and, looking down over the waves two hundred feet below, they saw red tongues of fire consume every ship in which they had crossed. In the enemy's country, with the last link with the Continent gone, the last means of retreat burned, there was but one thing left for them to do: to advance, to conquer. That is precisely what they did.

Such was the spirit of the :ref:`immortal<immortal>` Ceasar. Why not make it yours, too, as you set out to conquer your fear of audiences? Throw every :ref:`shred<shred>` of negative thought into the consuming fires and slam doors of steel upon every escape into the irresolute past.

FOURTH: SEIZE EVERY OPPORTUNITY TO PRACTICE
=======================================================================

The course I gave in the 125th Street YMCA before World War I has been changed almost beyond recognition. Every year new ideas have been woven into the sessions and old ones cast away. But one feature of the course remains unchanged. Every member of every class must get up once, and in the majority of cases, twice, and give a talk before his fellow members. Why? Because no one can learn to speak in public without speaking in public any more than a person can learn to swim without getting in the water. You could read every volume ever written about public speaking—including this one—and still not be able to speak. This book is a thorough guide. But you must put its suggestions into practice.


When George Bernard Shaw was asked how he learned to speak so compellingly in public, he replied: "I did it the same way I learned to skate—by :ref:`doggedly<dogged>` making a fool of myself until I got used to it." As a youth, Shaw was one of the most :ref:`timid<timid>` persons in London. He often walked up and down the Embankment for twenty minutes or more before :ref:`venturing<venture>` to knock at a door. "Few men," he confessed, "have suffered more from simple :ref:`cowardice<coward>` or have been more horribly ashamed of it."


Finally, he hit upon the best and quickest and surest method ever yet devised to conquer :ref:`timidity<timid>`, :ref:`cowardice<coward>`, and fear. He determined to make his weak point his strongest asset. He joined a debating society. He attended every meeting in London where there was to be a public discussion, and he always arose and took part in the debate. By throwing his heart into the cause of socialism, and by going out and speaking for that cause, George Bernard Shaw transformed himself into one of the most confident and :ref:`brilliant<brilliant>` speakers of the first half of the twentieth century.


Opportunities to speak are on all sides. Join organizations and volunteer for offices that will require you to speak. Stand up and assert yourself at public meetings, if only to second a motion. Don't take a back seat at departmental meetings. Speak up! Teach a Sunday School class. Become a Scout leader. Join any group where you will have an opportunity to participate actively in the meetings. You have but to look around you to see that there is scarcely a single business, community, political, professional, or even neighborhood activity that does not challenge you to step forward and speak up. You will never know what progress you can make unless you speak, and speak, and speak again.

"I know all about that," a young business executive once said to me, "but I hesitate to face the :ref:`ordeal<ordeal>` of learning."

"Ordeal!" I replied. "Put that thought out of your mind. You've never thought of learning in the right—-the conquering-—spirit."

"What spirit is that?" he asked.

"The spirit of adventure," I told him, and I talked to him a little about a path to success, through public speaking, and the warming up, the unfolding, of one's personality.

"I'll give it a try," he finally said. "I'll head into this adventure."


As you read on in this book, and as you put its principles into practice, you, too, will be heading into adventure. You will find it is an adventure in which your power of self-direction and your vision will sustain you. You will find it is an adventure that can change you, inside and out.