================================================================================
2025/03/04
================================================================================

.. _paralyse:

Paralyse
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈpærəlaɪz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To cause a person, animal, or part of the body to lose the ability to move or feel; to make someone or something unable to function properly or take action. [cite: 1, 2]

**What it really means**: To "paralyse" means to cause a complete or partial loss of the ability to move or feel in a part of the body, often due to injury or illness. Figuratively, it means to render someone or something unable to act, function, or move, often due to fear, shock, or overwhelming circumstances.

**When to use it**: Use it when describing a physical inability to move or feel, or when an entity (person, organization, city) is rendered completely unable to act or function due to various reasons.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "paralyse with fear," [cite: 7] [cite_start]"paralyse the economy," [cite: 7] [cite_start]"paralyse decision-making," [cite: 7] [cite_start]"paralyse a city," [cite: 7] [cite_start]"paralyse the body." [cite: 7]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The accident **paralysed** his legs, and he had to use a wheelchair." [cite: 3]
        * [cite_start]"Fear of failure can sometimes **paralyse** a person from taking risks." [cite: 4]
        * [cite_start]"The city was **paralysed** by the heavy snowfall." [cite: 5]
        * [cite_start]"A venomous snake bite can **paralyse** its prey within minutes." [cite: 6]
        * [cite_start]"The economic crisis **paralysed** the growth of small businesses." [cite: 7]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Immobilize, Disable, Cripple, Debilitate, Stun, Freeze. [cite: 7]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Energize, Activate, Empower, Strengthen. [cite: 7]
* **Where it comes from**: Greek *paralysis* (disabling of the nerves).

.. _condense:

Condense
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/kənˈdens/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To make something more compact or concentrated by removing excess material; to change a gas into a liquid by cooling; or to express something in a shorter or more concise form. [cite: 8, 9, 10]

**What it really means**: To "condense" involves making something smaller, denser, or more concentrated, either by removing superfluous parts, undergoing a physical phase change (like gas to liquid), or by summarizing information into a more concise format.

**When to use it**: Use it when something is made smaller, denser, or more concise, whether it's a physical substance, information, or a report.
    * **Common phrases**: "condense information," "condense a speech/report," "condense steam into water," "condense a book into an article," "condense an idea into a sentence."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The long report was **condensed** into a two-page summary." [cite: 10]
        * [cite_start]"Water vapor **condenses** into droplets when the temperature drops." [cite: 11]
        * [cite_start]"He **condensed** his speech to fit within the time limit." [cite: 12]
        * [cite_start]"The book **condenses** complex scientific theories into simple explanations." [cite: 13]
        * [cite_start]"The cold air caused the steam to **condense** on the window." [cite: 14]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Compress, Shorten, Reduce, Concentrate, Summarize. [cite: 15]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Expand, Lengthen, Dilute, Elaborate. [cite: 15]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *condensare* (to make very dense, to thicken).

.. _compact:

Compact
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈkɒmpækt/` (noun/adjective), `/kəmˈpækt/` (verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (transitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: As an adjective, small, dense, or closely packed, using little space while containing a lot. As a noun, a small, flat case or a formal agreement. [cite_start]As a verb, to press or pack tightly. [cite: 16, 17, 18, 19]

**What it really means**: As an adjective, "compact" describes something efficiently designed to be small but effective, or tightly packed. As a noun, it can be a small cosmetic case or a formal agreement between parties. As a verb, it means to press things together firmly.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something small and efficient (adj.), a small container or an agreement (noun), or the action of pressing things together tightly (verb).
    * **Common phrases**: "compact car," "compact disk (CD)," "compact design," "compact mirror," "compact agreement."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The **compact** design of the car makes it ideal for city driving." [cite: 19]
        * [cite_start]"She carried a **compact** mirror in her purse." [cite: 20]
        * [cite_start]"The two countries signed a **compact** to promote trade." [cite: 21]
        * [cite_start]"The snow was **compacted** into a hard, icy surface." [cite: 22]
        * [cite_start]"He **compacted** his belongings into a small suitcase." [cite: 23]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Dense, Small, Tight, Compressed, Concise. [cite: 24]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Loose, Spacious, Expanded, Spread-out. [cite: 24]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *compactus* (thick, dense, concise).

.. _retain:

Retain
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/rɪˈteɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To keep or continue to have something; to remember or hold information in the mind; or to keep someone engaged, such as an employee or a lawyer. [cite: 25, 26]

**What it really means**: To "retain" means to hold onto something, whether it's possession of an object, information in memory, or continued employment or service of a person. It implies keeping something rather than losing or giving it up.

**When to use it**: Use it when something is kept, held, or remembered, or when an individual or service is formally engaged and kept.
    * **Common phrases**: "retain control," "retain information," "retain water," "retain employees," "retain a lawyer."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The company struggled to **retain** its employees due to low salaries." [cite: 26]
        * [cite_start]"He could **retain** information easily, making him a great student." [cite: 27]
        * [cite_start]"The sponge **retains** water even after being squeezed." [cite: 28]
        * [cite_start]"She **retained** her position as the team leader." [cite: 28]
        * [cite_start]"The lawyer was **retained** to handle the case." [cite: 29]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Keep, Hold, Preserve, Maintain, Remember. [cite: 29]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Lose, Release, Dismiss, Forget. [cite: 29]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *retinere* (to hold back, keep).

.. _retention:

Retention
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/rɪˈtɛnʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: The act of keeping or holding onto something; the ability to remember information; or the continued possession, use, or control of something. [cite: 30, 31]

**What it really means**: "Retention" refers to the act or fact of keeping something, rather than losing or dismissing it. This can apply to employees, customers, information (memory), or even physical substances like water in the body.

**When to use it**: Use it to discuss the act or ability of keeping or holding onto something, especially in contexts of memory, employment, or substances.
    * **Common phrases**: "employee retention," "water retention," "memory retention," "customer retention," "retention policy."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The company improved its employee **retention** by offering better benefits." [cite: 31]
        * [cite_start]"Drinking less water can lead to **water retention** in the body." [cite: 32]
        * [cite_start]"His **retention** of facts and figures made him an excellent student." [cite: 33]
        * [cite_start]"The school introduced new teaching methods to improve knowledge **retention**." [cite: 34]
        * [cite_start]"Strong customer **retention** is crucial for business success." [cite: 35]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Keeping, Holding, Preservation, Maintenance, Memory. [cite: 35]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Loss, Release, Dismissal, Forgetting. [cite: 35]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *retentio* (a holding back).

.. _retentive:

Retentive
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/rɪˈtɛntɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: Having the ability to keep or remember things well; or able to hold or absorb liquid, heat, or other substances. [cite: 36, 37]

**What it really means**: "Retentive" describes something or someone with a strong capacity to hold onto things, whether it's information (a good memory) or physical substances (like a sponge holding water).

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the ability to retain information effectively (e.g., a memory) or to describe materials that can hold or absorb substances.
    * **Common phrases**: "retentive memory," "retentive soil," "retentive properties," "highly retentive," "retentive learner."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"He has a highly **retentive** memory and remembers everything he reads." [cite: 38]
        * [cite_start]"Clay soil is very **retentive** of water, making it hard for plants to grow." [cite: 39]
        * [cite_start]"A **retentive** mind helps in learning new languages quickly." [cite: 40]
        * [cite_start]"The sponge’s **retentive** properties allow it to soak up a lot of liquid." [cite: 41]
        * [cite_start]"Good students develop **retentive** study habits to retain information effectively." [cite: 42]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Absorbent, Receptive, Holding, Grasping. [cite: 42]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Non-retentive, Forgetful, Leaky, Expelling. [cite: 42]
* **Where it comes from**: From Latin *retinere* (to hold back, keep).

.. _prospect:

Prospect
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈprɒspekt/` (noun), `/prəˈspɛkt/` (verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (intransitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: As a noun, the possibility or likelihood of something happening in the future; a person or thing likely to succeed or be chosen; or a wide view. [cite_start]As a verb, to search for valuable minerals. [cite: 43, 44, 45, 46]

**What it really means**: As a noun, "prospect" refers to a future possibility or expectation, a potential candidate for success, or a panoramic view. As a verb, it means to explore an area for mineral deposits, typically gold.

**When to use it**: Use it to discuss future possibilities, potential candidates, scenic views (noun), or the act of searching for minerals (verb).
    * **Common phrases**: "bright prospect," "exciting prospect," "job prospect," "the prospect of success," "prospect for gold."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The **prospect** of getting a promotion excited him." [cite: 47]
        * [cite_start]"The company is looking for new **prospects** to expand its business." [cite: 48]
        * [cite_start]"The beautiful **prospect** from the mountaintop took their breath away." [cite: 49]
        * [cite_start]"Many explorers traveled west to **prospect** for gold." [cite: 50]
        * [cite_start]"He **prospected** the area but found no valuable metals." [cite: 51]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Possibility, Expectation, Outlook, Opportunity, Candidate, View, Search. [cite: 51]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Impossibility, Hopelessness, Unlikelihood, Past, Retreat. [cite: 51]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *prospectus* (a look forward, a view).

.. _assertive:

Assertive
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/əˈsɜːrtɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: Confident and direct in expressing oneself without being aggressive; showing a strong and forceful personality in a respectful way. [cite: 52, 53]

**What it really means**: "Assertive" describes someone who expresses their opinions, needs, and rights confidently and clearly, without being aggressive or overbearing. It's about standing up for oneself while respecting others.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe confident, direct, and respectful self-expression, particularly in professional or social interactions where clear communication is needed.
    * **Common phrases**: "assertive behavior," "be more assertive," "assertive communication," "assertive leadership," "assertive personality."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"She gave an **assertive** response during the meeting, making her opinion clear." [cite: 54]
        * [cite_start]"Being **assertive** helps in professional settings without appearing rude." [cite: 55]
        * [cite_start]"He has an **assertive** personality that makes him a natural leader." [cite: 56]
        * [cite_start]"You need to be more **assertive** when negotiating your salary." [cite: 57]
        * [cite_start]"The teacher encouraged students to be **assertive** in expressing their ideas." [cite: 58]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Confident, Self-assured, Decisive, Firm, Direct. [cite: 58]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Passive, Timid, Submissive, Hesitant, Indirect. [cite: 58]
* **Where it comes from**: From Latin *asserere* (to claim, affirm).

.. _fast-track:

Fast-track
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈfæst træck/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable), *Verb* (transitive), *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: As a noun, a route or method for quick progress. As a verb, to accelerate something. [cite_start]As an adjective, relating to a quicker process. [cite: 60, 61]

**What it really means**: "Fast-track" refers to a method or process designed to achieve rapid progress or advancement. As a verb, it means to speed up or expedite something. As an adjective, it describes something that is expedited or quickened.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe expedited processes, accelerated progress, or quick routes to achievement.
    * **Common phrases**: "fast-track approval," "on the fast track to success," "fast-track career advancement," "fast-track process," "fast-track development."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"She was put on the **fast track** to promotion due to her outstanding performance." [cite: 61]
        * [cite_start]"The government aims to **fast-track** the approval of the new policy." [cite: 62]
        * [cite_start]"The company launched a **fast-track** training program for young employees." [cite: 63]
        * [cite_start]"He is on the **fast track** to becoming a senior executive." [cite: 64]
        * [cite_start]"The university offers a **fast-track** degree for highly qualified students." [cite: 65]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Accelerate, Expedite, Speed up, Boost, Streamline. [cite: 66]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Delay, Slow down, Hinder, Impede. [cite: 66]
* **Where it comes from**: Modern English, compound of "fast" and "track."

.. _anticipate:

Anticipate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ænˈtɪsɪpeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To expect or predict something before it happens; to look forward to something with excitement; or to act in advance to deal with a situation before it occurs. [cite: 67, 68]

**What it really means**: To "anticipate" means to foresee an event or situation and either prepare for it, expect it, or look forward to it. It involves a forward-looking perspective and often proactive preparation.

**When to use it**: Use it when expecting a future event, looking forward to something, or taking preparatory actions for an upcoming situation.
    * **Common phrases**: "anticipate problems," "highly anticipated event," "anticipate changes in the market," "in eager anticipation," "anticipate a response."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"Scientists **anticipate** that the new vaccine will reduce infection rates." [cite: 69]
        * [cite_start]"She **anticipated** his reaction and prepared a response in advance." [cite: 70]
        * [cite_start]"We **anticipate** a large turnout for the event." [cite: 71]
        * [cite_start]"I eagerly **anticipate** my vacation next month." [cite: 72]
        * [cite_start]"The company **anticipated** customer demand and increased production." [cite: 73]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Expect, Foresee, Predict, Await, Prepare for, Look forward to. [cite: 73]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Ignore, Doubt, Delay, React. [cite: 73]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *anticipare* (to take before, to forestall).

.. _participate:

Participate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/pɑːrˈtɪsɪpeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (intransitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To take part or engage in an activity or event; or to share or contribute to something. [cite: 75]

**What it really means**: To "participate" means to be actively involved in an activity, event, or discussion. It implies engagement and contribution as a member of a group or process.

**When to use it**: Use it when describing active involvement or engagement in an activity, event, or group.
    * **Common phrases**: "participate in a meeting," "participate in a survey," "encourage participation," "active participation," "voluntary participation."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"She decided to **participate** in the charity run to raise money for cancer research." [cite: 76]
        * [cite_start]"The students were eager to **participate** in the science fair." [cite: 77]
        * [cite_start]"I love to **participate** in group discussions during meetings." [cite: 78]
        * [cite_start]"He didn't want to **participate** in the debate because he wasn't prepared." [cite: 79]
        * [cite_start]"Everyone is invited to **participate** in the upcoming team-building event." [cite: 80]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Engage, Join, Take part, Contribute, Be involved. [cite: 80]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Withdraw, Abstain, Avoid, Refrain. [cite: 80]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *participare* (to share in, to take part).

.. _intent:

Intent
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ɪnˈtɛnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable/uncountable), *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: As a noun, the purpose or intention behind an action or the goal one aims to achieve. [cite_start]As an adjective, firmly decided on a course of action or goal. [cite: 82, 83]

**What it really means**: As a noun, "intent" refers to the underlying purpose or objective guiding a person's actions or behavior. As an adjective, it describes someone who is deeply focused and determined to achieve a specific aim.

**When to use it**: Use it when discussing the purpose behind an action (noun) or describing someone as determined and focused on a goal (adjective).
    * **Common phrases**: "with intent to harm," "intent on doing something," "malicious intent," "clear intent," "intent to do something."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"His **intent** was to improve the company's efficiency with the new software." [cite: 84]
        * [cite_start]"She showed no **intent** to leave early despite the bad weather." [cite: 85]
        * [cite_start]"The officer was **intent** on completing his investigation before the deadline." [cite: 86]
        * [cite_start]"They were acting with **intent** to deceive their customers." [cite: 87]
        * [cite_start]"I was **intent** on finishing the project before the weekend." [cite: 88]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Purpose, Aim, Goal, Objective, Design, Determined, Focused. [cite: 88]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Accidental, Unintentional, Casual, Indecisive, Distracted. [cite: 88]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *intentus* (stretched out, eager, attentive).

.. _intention:

Intention
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ɪnˈtɛnʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable/uncountable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: A plan or purpose that one has in mind to achieve; the state of having a specific aim or goal to accomplish. [cite: 90, 91]

**What it really means**: An "intention" is a firm plan or aim that a person has in mind to carry out. It refers to the conscious purpose or objective behind an action or a desired outcome.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a specific plan, aim, or purpose that someone has in mind, often preceding an action.
    * **Common phrases**: "intention to do something," "good intention," "with the intention of," "it’s my intention," "clear intention."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"His **intention** was to become a doctor and help people." [cite: 92]
        * [cite_start]"She apologized, but her **intention** was never to hurt anyone." [cite: 93]
        * [cite_start]"It was her **intention** to finish her homework before the party." [cite: 94]
        * [cite_start]"I had no **intention** of leaving the meeting early, but I had an urgent call." [cite: 95]
        * [cite_start]"The **intention** of the policy is to improve public health." [cite: 96]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Aim, Plan, Purpose, Goal, Objective, Design. [cite: 96]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Accident, Misfire, Mistake, Unintention. [cite: 96]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *intentio* (a stretching out, purpose).

.. _intentional:

Intentional
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ɪnˈtɛnʃənl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: Done on purpose, not by accident; relating to or characterized by a clear intention or purpose. [cite: 98, 99]

**What it really means**: "Intentional" describes an action or outcome that is deliberate and planned, rather than accidental or spontaneous. It highlights that an act was carried out with a specific purpose or aim in mind.

**When to use it**: Use it to emphasize that an action, decision, or behavior was deliberate and purposeful, not accidental.
    * **Common phrases**: "intentional act," "intentional behavior," "intentional decision," "intentional error," "intentional neglect."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The decision to reduce the working hours was **intentional** to improve employee well-being." [cite: 100]
        * [cite_start]"His comment was **intentional** and meant to hurt her feelings." [cite: 101]
        * [cite_start]"The company made an **intentional** effort to reduce waste and improve sustainability." [cite: 102]
        * [cite_start]"I made an **intentional** choice to stay home today and rest." [cite: 103]
        * [cite_start]"The teacher's **intentional** praise helped boost the student's confidence." [cite: 104]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Purposeful, Planned, Meant, Designed, Willful, Deliberate. [cite: 104]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Accidental, Unintentional, Inadvertent, Spontaneous. [cite: 104]
* **Where it comes from**: From Latin *intentio* (a stretching out, purpose).

.. _infuse:

Infuse
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ɪnˈfjuːz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To fill something with a particular quality or feeling; to introduce or mix one substance with another; or to inspire or instill ideas, values, or emotions into someone. [cite: 106, 107, 108]

**What it really means**: To "infuse" means to introduce a quality, feeling, or substance into something else, often gradually and thoroughly, so that it becomes deeply ingrained or characteristic.

**When to use it**: Use it when a quality, feeling, or substance is introduced into something to pervade or enrich it, or when inspiring certain attributes.
    * **Common phrases**: "infuse with energy," "infuse with life," "infuse new ideas," "infuse a feeling of hope," "infuse into the community."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The teacher tried to **infuse** enthusiasm into her students by making the lessons more interactive." [cite: 109]
        * [cite_start]"The chef used herbs to **infuse** the oil with extra flavor." [cite: 110]
        * [cite_start]"The new policy is designed to **infuse** creativity and innovation into the workplace." [cite: 111]
        * [cite_start]"The artist's work is meant to **infuse** emotion into every canvas." [cite: 112]
        * [cite_start]"The community center is trying to **infuse** a sense of belonging among the members." [cite: 113]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Instill, Inject, Imbue, Introduce, Fill, Permeate. [cite: 113]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Drain, Remove, Extract, Deplete. [cite: 113]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *infundere* (to pour into).

.. _impart:

Impart
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ɪmˈpɑːrt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To make something known, communicate, or give information, knowledge, or wisdom; or to bestow or give a quality or knowledge to someone. [cite: 115, 116]

**What it really means**: To "impart" means to convey or communicate information, knowledge, or a quality to another person or thing, essentially sharing or bestowing it.

**When to use it**: Use it when knowledge, information, or a quality is being shared or communicated, especially in a formal or teaching context.
    * **Common phrases**: "impart knowledge," "impart wisdom," "impart information," "impart a lesson," "impart to someone."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The teacher will **impart** her knowledge of science to the students." [cite: 117]
        * [cite_start]"The book **imparts** valuable lessons on leadership and teamwork." [cite: 118]
        * [cite_start]"He tried to **impart** wisdom to the younger generation through his lectures." [cite: 119]
        * [cite_start]"The guide will **impart** the history of the castle during the tour." [cite: 120]
        * [cite_start]"The chef **imparted** his secret recipe to the apprentice." [cite: 121]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Communicate, Convey, Share, Transmit, Pass on, Grant. [cite: 121]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Withhold, Keep, Conceal, Take away. [cite: 121]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *impartire* (to share, to give a part to).

.. _bestow:

Bestow
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/bɪˈstəʊ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To give or present something to someone, usually in a formal or ceremonial way; or to grant or confer something, especially a gift, honor, or title. [cite: 123, 124]

**What it really means**: To "bestow" means to grant or present something of value (like a gift, honor, or right) in a formal, dignified, or significant manner. It often implies that the giver has authority or respect.

**When to use it**: Use it when something valuable, like an award, honor, or gift, is formally given or granted to someone.
    * **Common phrases**: "bestow upon someone," "bestow an honor," "bestow a gift," "bestow recognition," "bestow blessings."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The king decided to **bestow** a medal of honor on the brave soldier." [cite: 125]
        * [cite_start]"The university will **bestow** an honorary degree upon the philanthropist." [cite: 126]
        * [cite_start]"She was grateful for the kindness that her friends **bestowed** upon her during difficult times." [cite: 127]
        * [cite_start]"The scholarship was **bestowed** on a student who demonstrated exceptional academic performance." [cite: 128]
        * [cite_start]"The charity event was organized to **bestow** assistance on those in need." [cite: 129]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Give, Confer, Grant, Present, Donate, Award. [cite: 129]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Withhold, Take, Refuse, Deny. [cite: 129]
* **Where it comes from**: Old English *bestōwian* (to place, locate).

.. _confer:

Confer
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/kənˈfɜːr/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive/intransitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To grant, bestow, or present something (like an honor or degree); or to discuss or consult with someone to exchange ideas or information. [cite: 131, 132]

**What it really means**: To "confer" can mean either to formally grant an honor, degree, or title, or to have a discussion, typically formal or serious, to exchange opinions or seek advice.

**When to use it**: Use it when an award or title is formally given, or when people meet to discuss and exchange ideas.
    * **Common phrases**: "confer a degree," "confer with someone," "confer an honor," "confer a title," "confer benefits."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The university will **confer** degrees upon the graduates at the ceremony." [cite: 133]
        * [cite_start]"The president will **confer** with his advisors before making the final decision." [cite: 134]
        * [cite_start]"The medal was **conferred** upon the soldier for his bravery during the battle." [cite: 135]
        * [cite_start]"The committee will **confer** to determine the winner of the scholarship." [cite: 136]
        * [cite_start]"The organization plans to **confer** awards at the annual conference." [cite: 137]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Bestow, Grant, Present, Award, Discuss, Consult. [cite: 137]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Withhold, Deny, Refuse, Disregard. [cite: 137]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *conferre* (to bring together, compare, consult).

.. _mature:

Mature
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/məˈtjʊə(r)/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb* (intransitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: As an adjective, fully developed or grown, especially emotionally or intellectually; or a product/process at its final stage. [cite_start]As a verb, to develop or become fully grown or realized. [cite: 139, 140, 141]

**What it really means**: As an adjective, "mature" describes something that has reached its full development, whether it's a living organism, a product, an idea, or a person's emotional state. As a verb, it means to undergo this process of full development or ripening.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something fully grown or developed, physically, emotionally, or in quality, or the process of reaching such a state.
    * **Common phrases**: "mature person," "mature age," "mature approach," "mature decision," "mature understanding."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"She has become a very **mature** individual, able to handle difficult situations with grace." [cite: 142]
        * [cite_start]"The wine has reached a **mature** stage and is now perfect for drinking." [cite: 143]
        * [cite_start]"His ideas have become **mature** over the years, reflecting his deep understanding of the subject." [cite: 144]
        * [cite_start]"The tree will **mature** in about 10 years and will start producing fruit." [cite: 145]
        * [cite_start]"It takes time for a person to **mature** emotionally and gain a better understanding of life." [cite: 146]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Fully developed, Grown, Seasoned, Experienced, Ripened, Adult. [cite: 146]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Immature, Inexperienced, Underdeveloped, Youthful. [cite: 146]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *maturus* (ripe, timely).

.. _competence:

Competence
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈkɒmpɪtəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: The ability, skill, or knowledge to do something effectively or efficiently; the condition of being qualified or capable of performing a specific task or duty. [cite: 148, 149]

**What it really means**: "Competence" refers to the necessary skills, knowledge, and ability to perform a task or job successfully and efficiently. It implies being qualified and capable in a particular area.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone's proven ability, skill, or qualification to perform a task or in a specific field.
    * **Common phrases**: "professional competence," "demonstrate competence," "lack of competence," "competence in a field," "competence in decision-making."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"Her **competence** in handling the project was evident when she finished ahead of schedule." [cite: 150]
        * [cite_start]"The company requires candidates to demonstrate **competence** in both software and hardware." [cite: 151]
        * [cite_start]"As a manager, you must have **competence** in dealing with various team members and situations." [cite: 152]
        * [cite_start]"The judge questioned the defendant's legal **competence** during the trial." [cite: 153]
        * [cite_start]"His **competence** in languages helped him secure a job as a translator." [cite: 154]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Ability, Skill, Proficiency, Capability, Expertise, Aptitude. [cite: 154]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Incompetence, Inability, Inefficiency, Inadequacy, Lack. [cite: 154]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *competentia* (agreement, fitness).

.. _audacious:

Audacious
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ɔːˈdeɪʃəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: Showing a willingness to take bold risks; daring, often in a reckless or disrespectful manner; disrespectful of social conventions; or extremely bold or fearless. [cite: 156, 157]

**What it really means**: "Audacious" describes someone or something that is remarkably bold, daring, and fearless, often in a way that is surprising, unconventional, or even disrespectful of rules. It implies a readiness to take significant risks.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe remarkably bold actions, plans, or individuals who are daring and unconventional, sometimes pushing boundaries.
    * **Common phrases**: "audacious move," "audacious plan," "audacious behavior," "audacious remarks," "audacious courage."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"His **audacious** plan to start a business in a foreign country was met with both admiration and skepticism." [cite: 158]
        * [cite_start]"The **audacious** artist was known for his controversial works that challenged conventional norms." [cite: 159]
        * [cite_start]"She made an **audacious** move by quitting her stable job to follow her passion." [cite: 160]
        * [cite_start]"His **audacious** remarks at the meeting offended several of his colleagues." [cite: 161]
        * [cite_start]"The **audacious** heist involved stealing millions of dollars without leaving a trace." [cite: 162]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Daring, Bold, Reckless, Brave, Fearless, Brazen, Impudent. [cite: 162]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Cautious, Timid, Shy, Reserved, Prudent, Conventional. [cite: 162]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *audax* (daring, bold).

.. _perpetuate:

Perpetuate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/pəˈpɛtʃʊeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To cause something (like a situation, belief, or condition) to continue indefinitely or for a long period; or to preserve or keep something alive, often referring to customs or traditions. [cite: 164, 165]

**What it really means**: To "perpetuate" means to make something last indefinitely, to ensure its continued existence or to maintain a state, often referring to ideas, traditions, or cycles (both positive and negative).

**When to use it**: Use it when an action or factor causes something to continue without end or for a very long time, such as a cycle, a belief, or a tradition.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "perpetuate a myth," "perpetuate a cycle," "perpetuate a tradition," "perpetuate an image," [cite: 171] [cite_start]"perpetuate a problem." [cite: 171]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The media often **perpetuate** stereotypes about certain communities." [cite: 166]
        * [cite_start]"The education system should not **perpetuate** inequality but work toward equality for all students." [cite: 167]
        * [cite_start]"His actions only **perpetuate** the cycle of poverty in the region." [cite: 168]
        * [cite_start]"The historian warned that repeating false narratives would only **perpetuate** misconceptions about the past." [cite: 169]
        * [cite_start]"They sought to **perpetuate** their cultural heritage through storytelling and art." [cite: 170]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Maintain, Sustain, Continue, Extend, Preserve, Keep alive. [cite: 170]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Cease, End, Terminate, Abandon, Stop, Abolish. [cite: 170]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *perpetuare* (to make perpetual).

.. _perpetual:

Perpetual
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/pəˈpɛtʃʊəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: Continuing forever or for a very long time without interruption; constant or occurring repeatedly; never changing or ending. [cite: 172, 173]

**What it really means**: "Perpetual" describes something that is continuous, never-ending, or constantly recurring. It implies an uninterrupted or indefinite duration.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is continuous, constant, or seems to last forever, often with a sense of regularity or unendingness.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "perpetual motion," "perpetual cycle," "perpetual change," "perpetual struggle," [cite: 179] [cite_start]"perpetual challenge." [cite: 179]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The **perpetual** motion of the machine made it an engineering marvel." [cite: 174]
        * [cite_start]"She faced the **perpetual** challenge of balancing work and family life." [cite: 175]
        * [cite_start]"The **perpetual** noise from the construction site disturbed the residents." [cite: 176]
        * [cite_start]"They lived under the **perpetual** threat of natural disasters in the region." [cite: 177]
        * [cite_start]"The **perpetual** summer weather in the region attracts tourists year-round." [cite: 178]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Endless, Continuous, Unceasing, Constant, Incessant, Eternal. [cite: 178]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Temporary, Finite, Intermittent, Short-lived, Brief. [cite: 178]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *perpetualis* (universal, perpetual).

.. _perpetuity:

Perpetuity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/pəˌpɛtʃʊˈɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: The state of lasting forever or for an indefinitely long time; a legal term referring to an estate or condition designed to last forever. [cite: 180, 181]

**What it really means**: "Perpetuity" refers to the quality of being endless or continuing indefinitely, often in a legal or financial context where rights, properties, or payments are designated to last forever.

**When to use it**: Use it when referring to the concept of something lasting forever or for an unlimited period, especially in formal or legal contexts.
    * **Common phrases**: "in perpetuity," "last in perpetuity," "for perpetuity," "held in perpetuity," "guaranteed in perpetuity."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The law ensured that the land would remain in **perpetuity** under the ownership of the family." [cite: 182]
        * [cite_start]"The company's legacy of innovation seemed destined to last in **perpetuity**." [cite: 183]
        * [cite_start]"The contract stipulated that the benefits would continue in **perpetuity**, without any expiration." [cite: 184]
        * [cite_start]"He set up a trust to provide financial support for his descendants in **perpetuity**." [cite: 185]
        * [cite_start]"The **perpetuity** of their partnership was guaranteed by a binding legal agreement." [cite: 186]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Eternity, Continuity, Endlessness, Permanence, Infinity. [cite: 186]
* [cite_start]**Opposite words**: Termination, Expiration, End, Conclusion, Transience. [cite: 186]
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *perpetuitas* (continuousness).
