
600
======================================================

.. _regularly:

================================================================================
Regularly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrɛɡjʊləli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: At a fixed time or interval; often.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "regularly" is to describe an action that occurs **with consistent and predictable timing**, following a fixed pattern.

**What it really means**: "**Regularly**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is repeated at fixed intervals or with a high degree of frequency. It implies a sense of routine and consistency. For example, if you exercise **regularly**, you do it on a consistent basis, not randomly.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe an action that happens often or at a fixed time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**regularly** scheduled," "**regularly** attend," "**regularly** check."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **regularly** check my email for new messages."
            * "She **regularly** visits her grandparents on the weekends."
            * "The bus runs **regularly** every 15 minutes during the day."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The study found that students who **regularly** review their notes tend to perform better in exams."
            * "The company **regularly** publishes a financial report to inform its shareholders of its performance."
            * "A diet that **regularly** includes fresh fruits and vegetables is essential for good health."
            * "The system requires users to **regularly** update their password to maintain security."

**Synonyms**: Frequently, often, consistently, routinely.

**Opposite words**: Rarely, seldom, irregularly, occasionally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *regularis* (according to rule).



.. _measurement:

================================================================================
Measurement
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɛʒəmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process of finding a size, quantity, or degree of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "measurement" is the **act of determining the size, quantity, or extent** of something by comparing it to a standard unit.

**What it really means**: "**Measurement**" is the process of quantifying something, like length, weight, temperature, or volume. It is the result of this process, expressed in numerical form and a unit (e.g., "the **measurement** is 5 centimeters"). It is a fundamental concept in science, engineering, and daily life.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about the process or result of determining the size or quantity of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "take a **measurement**," "unit of **measurement**," "accurate **measurement**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Before buying a new desk, you should take a **measurement** of the space."
            * "The tailor took my waist **measurement** for the new trousers."
            * "The doctor took a **measurement** of my blood pressure."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "Accurate **measurement** is crucial for conducting a reliable scientific experiment."
            * "The report outlines a new system for the **measurement** of air quality in urban environments."
            * "The study involves the **measurement** of changes in ocean temperature over several decades."
            * "The architect's plans include precise **measurements** for all structural components."

**Synonyms**: Calculation, quantity, dimension, size, evaluation.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *mesure*, from Latin *metiri* (to measure).



.. _properly:

================================================================================
Properly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɒpəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Correctly or appropriately; in a suitable manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "properly" is to do something **in the correct or appropriate way**, in accordance with established rules, standards, or expectations.

**What it really means**: "**Properly**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is performed correctly, appropriately, or in the right manner. It implies a sense of doing something well and according to the rules. If you do something **properly**, you are not cutting corners or making mistakes.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe an action that is done correctly or in the right way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "do something **properly**," "behave **properly**," "work **properly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "You need to clean the kitchen **properly** before the guests arrive."
            * "The new machine isn't working **properly**."
            * "You must attach the seatbelt **properly** for it to be safe."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "To ensure the accuracy of the data, all surveys must be filled out **properly** and completely."
            * "The report states that the waste disposal system is not functioning **properly** and needs immediate repair."
            * "For a plant to grow **properly**, it requires adequate sunlight and water."
            * "The instructions specify how to **properly** install the software to avoid any errors."

**Synonyms**: Correctly, appropriately, suitably, rightly, adequately.

**Opposite words**: Improperly, incorrectly, wrongly, inadequately.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *proprius* (one's own, special).



.. _current:

================================================================================
Current
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkʌrənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Of the present time; (Noun) A flow of water or electricity.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning for the **adjective** is to be **of or belonging to the present time**. For the **noun**, it is a continuous **flow or movement** of water, air, or electricity.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**current**" means happening now or in the present moment ("the **current** situation"). As a **noun**, it refers to a continuous flow of a fluid or energy ("an electric **current**" or "the ocean **current**").

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to refer to the present time, or the noun to refer to a flow of a fluid or energy.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**current** affairs," "**current** events," "at the **current** time."
        * **(Noun)** "electric **current**," "strong **current**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "What's the **current** weather like outside?"
            * "The river has a very strong **current** after the rain."
            * "My **current** job is much more challenging than my last one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report analyzes the **current** trends in global economic development and their potential impact."
            * "Scientists are studying the effects of melting glaciers on the **currents** of the Atlantic Ocean."
            * "The document provides an overview of the **current** situation regarding public health in the region."
            * "The device uses a low-voltage electric **current** to power its internal components."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Present, existing, prevailing; (Noun) Flow, stream, movement.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Past, former, old; (Noun) Stagnation.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *currere* (to run).



.. _prediction:

================================================================================
Prediction
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈdɪkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A statement about what will happen in the future.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "prediction" is a **forecast or a calculated guess** about a future event, often based on existing data, trends, or knowledge.

**What it really means**: A "**prediction**" is a statement or a guess about what might happen in the future. It is not a guaranteed fact but a statement of what is expected to occur. It can be a simple guess (e.g., "My **prediction** is that it will rain") or a complex scientific forecast (e.g., "The weather **prediction** for tomorrow is sunny").

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about a forecast or a statement about a future event.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make a **prediction**," "weather **prediction**," "economic **prediction**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My **prediction** is that our team will win the championship this year."
            * "The weather **prediction** for this weekend is sunny, so we should plan a picnic."
            * "Don't take his **prediction** too seriously; he's just guessing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report's **prediction** of a rise in unemployment was based on the analysis of recent market trends."
            * "Making an accurate **prediction** of future climate change requires complex modeling and vast amounts of data."
            * "The economic **prediction** for the next quarter suggests a period of modest but sustained growth."
            * "One of the key functions of scientific models is to enable the **prediction** of outcomes based on specific variables."

**Synonyms**: Forecast, forecast, guess, prophecy, prognosis, projection.

**Opposite words**: Retrospection, hindsight, memory.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *prae* (before) + *dicere* (to say).



.. _approve:

================================================================================
Approve
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈpruːv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To officially agree to or accept something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "approve" is to **officially or formally give one's consent, support, or agreement** to something, making it valid or acceptable.

**What it really means**: To "**approve**" means to say yes to a plan, proposal, or action. This can be a formal process (e.g., "the committee **approved** the new budget") or a more informal one (e.g., "my parents **approved** of my choice of university"). It suggests that something has met a standard and is now acceptable.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of giving official consent or support.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**approve** of," "**approve** a plan," "get **approved**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My boss will need to **approve** my vacation request."
            * "I hope my parents **approve** of my new boyfriend."
            * "The city council needs to **approve** the new building plans."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The board of directors is expected to **approve** the merger in today's meeting."
            * "The new drug will not be sold to the public until it has been **approved** by a regulatory agency."
            * "The report recommends that the government **approve** the new legislation to address climate change."
            * "The project proposal was carefully reviewed before being **approved** for funding."

**Synonyms**: Accept, authorize, sanction, consent to, endorse.

**Opposite words**: Disapprove, reject, veto, deny, refuse.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *aprover*, from Latin *approbare* (to assent to, to prove).



.. _significant:

================================================================================
Significant
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/sɪɡˈnɪfɪkənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Important, notable, or meaningful.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "significant" is to be **important or meaningful** in its impact or effect, or to be large enough to be noticeable.

**What it really means**: "**Significant**" is an adjective used to describe something that is important, has a large effect, or is notable enough to be mentioned. It can refer to an event ("a **significant** discovery"), a person ("a **significant** figure"), or a quantity ("a **significant** amount of money"). It is often used to emphasize the importance or size of something.

**When to use it**: Use it to emphasize the importance, size, or effect of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**significant** change," "**significant** difference," "a **significant** number."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There has been a **significant** improvement in her health since she started exercising."
            * "The new job came with a **significant** pay increase."
            * "That was a very **significant** moment in my life."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The research found a statistically **significant** correlation between the two variables."
            * "The discovery of the new planet is considered a **significant** event in the field of astronomy."
            * "The report highlights the **significant** progress made in reducing carbon emissions over the last decade."
            * "The policy change is expected to have a **significant** impact on the economy."

**Synonyms**: Important, notable, meaningful, substantial, consequential.

**Opposite words**: Insignificant, trivial, minor, negligible, unimportant.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *significare* (to make a sign, to mean).



.. _generalisation:

================================================================================
Generalisation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdʒɛnərəlaɪˈzeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A broad statement or rule inferred from specific cases.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "generalisation" is the **process of forming a broad rule or concept from a limited number of specific examples**, or the broad statement itself.

**What it really means**: A "**generalisation**" is a conclusion or a broad statement that you make after observing a small number of examples. It is often a simplifying statement about a whole group or category. While they can be useful for understanding, they are not always accurate and can sometimes lead to stereotypes.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about a broad statement or conclusion based on limited evidence.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make a **generalisation**," "a sweeping **generalisation**," "a broad **generalisation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "You can't make a **generalisation** about all teenagers just from knowing one."
            * "I think that's a bit of a **generalisation**; not everyone feels that way."
            * "The survey's findings are too small to make a valid **generalisation**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The researcher warned against making a **generalisation** from the small sample size used in the study."
            * "The report’s conclusions are based on a **generalisation** of historical data, which may not apply to current conditions."
            * "The author's argument contains several sweeping **generalisations** that are not supported by evidence."
            * "While useful, a scientific **generalisation** must always be tested with further experiments and data."

**Synonyms**: Broad statement, assumption, oversimplification, axiom.

**Opposite words**: Specificity, detail, particularity.

**Where it comes from**: From the verb *generalize*, from Latin *generalis* (of a whole class).



.. _necessity:

================================================================================
Necessity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/nəˈsɛsəti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being required or essential.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "necessity" is the **compelling quality of being absolutely essential, required, or unavoidable**. It refers to a need that cannot be ignored.

**What it really means**: A "**necessity**" is something that is absolutely required. It can be a thing, like food and water ("basic human **necessities**"), or a condition, like the **necessity** of having a password to log in. It is used to describe something that is not optional.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to something that is absolutely essential or required.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a matter of **necessity**," "out of **necessity**," "the **necessity** of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Having a car is a **necessity** for me to get to work."
            * "Food and shelter are basic human **necessities**."
            * "There's no **necessity** for us to leave so early; we have plenty of time."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights the **necessity** of investing in renewable energy sources to combat climate change."
            * "In some situations, a government may have to act out of economic **necessity** rather than choice."
            * "The study examines the **necessity** of early childhood education for a child's cognitive development."
            * "The document outlines the legal **necessity** for all businesses to maintain accurate financial records."

**Synonyms**: Requirement, essential, prerequisite, need, obligation.

**Opposite words**: Optionality, choice, luxury, nonessential.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *necessitas* (unavoidableness, need).



.. _perform:

================================================================================
Perform
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pəˈfɔːm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To carry out an action or task; to entertain an audience.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "perform" is to **carry out a specific action or function**, whether it's a routine task, a complex procedure, or a public display for an audience.

**What it really means**: To "**perform**" means to do something. This can be a practical task like **performing** an operation, or a creative one like a musician **performing** on stage. The word suggests a sense of action and execution, often with a focus on how well the task is carried out ("to **perform** well").

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of carrying out a task, function, or artistic activity.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**perform** a task," "**perform** a play," "**perform** a duty."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The doctor will **perform** a routine checkup tomorrow."
            * "The band will **perform** live at the club tonight."
            * "I'm not sure if I can **perform** well under this much pressure."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The team was instructed to **perform** a detailed analysis of the market data before the meeting."
            * "The study aims to evaluate how well the new software **performs** under different operating conditions."
            * "It is the responsibility of all employees to **perform** their duties with integrity and professionalism."
            * "The robot was designed to **perform** a number of complex assembly tasks in the factory."

**Synonyms**: Do, execute, carry out, conduct, fulfill, enact.

**Opposite words**: Fail, neglect, abandon, omit.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *parfournir* (to complete, to accomplish).



.. _credible:

================================================================================
Credible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkrɛdɪbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be believed or trusted; convincing.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "credible" is to be **worthy of belief or confidence**, possessing a quality that makes something seem true or reliable.

**What it really means**: "**Credible**" is an adjective used to describe something that is believable. It can refer to a person who is trustworthy ("a **credible** witness"), a story that seems true ("a **credible** account"), or evidence that is convincing ("**credible** data"). It is often used to assess the reliability of a source or a piece of information.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a person, claim, or piece of evidence that is believable.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**credible** source," "**credible** threat," "**credible** explanation."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She gave a very **credible** explanation for why she was late."
            * "The journalist is a **credible** source of information about the country's politics."
            * "I don't think his story is very **credible**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "To be considered a **credible** source, the research must be peer-reviewed and its data verifiable."
            * "The report provides a **credible** analysis of the economic situation, backed by strong statistical evidence."
            * "The committee determined that the witness's testimony was not **credible** due to multiple contradictions."
            * "The new security plan is designed to address every **credible** threat to the company's network."

**Synonyms**: Believable, trustworthy, convincing, plausible, reliable.

**Opposite words**: Incredible, unbelievable, untrustworthy, dubious, implausible.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *credibilis* (worthy of belief), from *credere* (to believe).



.. _vaguely:

================================================================================
Vaguely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈveɪɡli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is not clear or definite.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "vaguely" is to do or say something **in an indefinite, imprecise, or unclear manner**, lacking specific detail.

**What it really means**: "**Vaguely**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done in a way that is not clear, precise, or detailed. It suggests a lack of clarity, either in thought or in expression. For example, if you remember something **vaguely**, you remember it without many details.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not clear, precise, or definite.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**vaguely** remember," "**vaguely** familiar," "**vaguely** aware."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **vaguely** remember meeting her at the party last year."
            * "The instructions were so **vaguely** written that I had to call for help."
            * "He looked **vaguely** familiar, but I couldn't remember his name."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The document **vaguely** refers to a past agreement without providing specific dates or terms."
            * "The report's conclusions are **vaguely** defined, making it difficult to draw any firm conclusions."
            * "The new policy is **vaguely** worded, which could lead to multiple interpretations."
            * "The study's results are only **vaguely** correlated with the initial hypothesis."

**Synonyms**: Indefinitely, indistinctly, unclearly, loosely, imprecisely.

**Opposite words**: Clearly, precisely, explicitly, definitely, exactly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *vagus* (wandering).



.. _accurately:

================================================================================
Accurately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈækjʊrətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is correct and precise.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "accurately" is to do something **in a precise and correct manner**, without errors or deviations from the facts.

**What it really means**: "**Accurately**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done without mistakes. It suggests a high degree of correctness, precision, and truthfulness. For example, if you measure something **accurately**, you get the exact right number.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done correctly and with precision.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**accurately** measure," "**accurately** predict," "**accurately** describe."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The clock on the wall doesn't tell the time **accurately**."
            * "You need to follow the recipe **accurately** to get the best result."
            * "She was able to **accurately** guess my age."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "To ensure the safety of the structure, the engineers must **accurately** calculate the weight it can bear."
            * "The research aims to **accurately** measure the impact of the new policy on the local economy."
            * "It is difficult to **accurately** predict the outcomes of a complex social system without a great deal of data."
            * "The report **accurately** describes the current state of the global climate, based on the latest scientific evidence."

**Synonyms**: Correctly, precisely, exactly, truthfully, reliably.

**Opposite words**: Inaccurately, incorrectly, imprecisely, vaguely, wrongly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *accuratus* (prepared with care), from *ad-* (to) + *cura* (care).



.. _react:

================================================================================
React
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/riˈækt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To behave or respond in a particular way to something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "react" is to **respond to a stimulus or event**, often involuntarily or as a direct consequence of that stimulus.

**What it really means**: To "**react**" means to behave or respond to something that has just happened. It can be a sudden, emotional response ("She **reacted** with surprise") or a more deliberate action ("The government **reacted** to the crisis"). In chemistry, it also means to undergo a chemical change when two substances are combined.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe how someone or something responds to an event or a stimulus.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**react** to," "**react** with," "**react** negatively."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "How did he **react** when you told him the news?"
            * "I don't think you should **react** so strongly to a small problem."
            * "The medicine didn't **react** well with my system."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The study examines how different plant species **react** to changes in soil composition."
            * "The financial market **reacted** negatively to the news of the trade dispute."
            * "The report analyzes how public opinion **reacts** to new government policies."
            * "The immune system can sometimes **react** to harmless substances, causing an allergic response."

**Synonyms**: Respond, answer, behave, reply, act in response.

**Opposite words**: Ignore, disregard, overlook, remain unaffected.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *re* (back) + *agere* (to do, to act).



.. _complain:

================================================================================
Complain
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəmˈpleɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To express dissatisfaction or unhappiness about something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "complain" is to **express dissatisfaction or distress** about a problem, a person, or a situation, usually in a negative or critical way.

**What it really means**: To "**complain**" means to express that you are unhappy or dissatisfied with something. This can be done verbally (e.g., "**complain** to the manager") or in writing (e.g., "**complain** in an email"). It is used when a person feels that something is wrong and wants it to be changed.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of expressing dissatisfaction or unhappiness.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**complain** about," "**complain** to," "**complain** bitterly."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She always **complains** about the cold weather."
            * "I need to **complain** to the waiter about the food being cold."
            * "My neighbors **complain** about my loud music every weekend."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "A significant number of customers **complain** about the lack of communication from the service provider."
            * "The report found that workers **complain** most frequently about a lack of recognition for their efforts."
            * "The government received numerous letters from citizens who **complain** about the new tax policy."
            * "The study indicates that students who **complain** about academic pressure often have lower grades."

**Synonyms**: Grumble, protest, whine, object, grouse.

**Opposite words**: Praise, commend, compliment, approve.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *complaindre*, from Latin *com-* (with, together) + *plangere* (to strike, to lament).



.. _validity:

================================================================================
Validity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/vəˈlɪdəti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The quality of being logically or factually sound; the state of being legally or officially acceptable.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "validity" is the **quality of being based on sound reasoning, facts, or legal authority**. It is the state of being correct, true, or acceptable.

**What it really means**: "**Validity**" is a noun that refers to the quality of being logically correct, factually true, or officially acceptable. It is used to question or confirm the truthfulness of a claim ("the **validity** of the argument") or the legal status of a document ("the passport's **validity**").

**When to use it**: Use it to discuss the quality of being correct, true, or officially acceptable.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "question the **validity**," "check the **validity**," "the **validity** of a claim."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We need to check the **validity** of the claim before we believe it."
            * "The **validity** of my bus pass expires next month."
            * "I question the **validity** of his excuse for being late."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The study's **validity** was questioned due to the small sample size and potential bias."
            * "The report examines the **validity** of the data used to support the new policy recommendations."
            * "The passport's **validity** is a crucial factor for international travel."
            * "The court will determine the **validity** of the contract based on the legal principles **set forth** in the law."

**Synonyms**: Correctness, soundness, legitimacy, truth, accuracy, cogency.

**Opposite words**: Invalidity, falsehood, error, inaccuracy, illegitimacy.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *validus* (strong, effective).



.. _widely:

================================================================================
Widely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈwaɪdli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Over a large area or among many people.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "widely" is to do something **over a large area, to a great extent, or among a great number of people**.

**What it really means**: "**Widely**" is an adverb used to describe an action that affects or involves many people or a large area. It suggests a broad scope. For example, if a belief is **widely** held, many people believe it. If a technology is **widely** used, it is very common.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is common, extensive, or involves many people.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**widely** used," "**widely** accepted," "**widely** known."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The news about the scandal was **widely** reported in the media."
            * "His new book is **widely** available in all bookstores."
            * "The internet is **widely** considered the most important invention of the 20th century."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The study found that the new app is **widely** used by people in different age groups across the country."
            * "The new law was **widely** criticized for its potential negative impact on the economy."
            * "The concept of sustainable development is now **widely** accepted as a global priority."
            * "The species is **widely** distributed across all continents except Antarctica."

**Synonyms**: Broadly, extensively, commonly, generally, universally.

**Opposite words**: Narrowly, locally, rarely, specifically.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *wīd* (wide).



.. _formally:

================================================================================
Formally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɔːməli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a formal manner or style; officially.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "formally" is to do something **in an official, proper, or ceremonious manner**, following rules and conventions.

**What it really means**: "**Formally**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done in a very proper or official way. It suggests that rules and conventions are being followed. For example, a business letter is written **formally**, and an agreement is signed **formally**. It is the opposite of doing something casually or informally.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe an action that is done in a very official, proper, or serious way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**formally** dressed," "**formally** invite," "**formally** announce."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She was **formally** introduced to the CEO at the company dinner."
            * "You should write to them **formally** to express your concerns."
            * "The new restaurant is very fancy, so we have to dress **formally**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The committee **formally** approved the budget after a long discussion."
            * "The government will **formally** announce the new policy at a press conference tomorrow."
            * "To be considered for the position, candidates must **formally** submit a written application and a CV."
            * "The report was **formally** presented to the board of directors for their review and approval."

**Synonyms**: Officially, properly, ceremoniously, conventionally.

**Opposite words**: Informally, casually, unofficially.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *formel*, from Latin *forma* (form, shape).



.. _convertible:

================================================================================
Convertible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈvɜːtəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Able to be changed into a different form; (Noun) A car with a folding roof.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **capable of being changed in form, function, or nature**. The **noun** is a specific application of this quality, a car with a roof that can be converted.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**convertible**" describes something that can be changed from one form to another. For example, a sofa bed is **convertible** from a sofa to a bed. As a **noun**, a "**convertible**" is a type of car that has a roof that can be folded down or removed.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe something that can be changed, or the noun to refer to a specific type of car.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**convertible** sofa," "**convertible** currency," "easily **convertible**."
        * **(Noun)** "drive a **convertible**," "buy a **convertible**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I bought a **convertible** car so I can enjoy the sun."
            * "My friend has a **convertible** sofa bed for when guests stay over."
            * "The old currency is still **convertible** at the bank for a limited time."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The study examines the **convertible** nature of different forms of energy, such as light and heat."
            * "The report discusses the challenges of designing a single-use product that is also easily **convertible** for other purposes."
            * "The company is exploring the use of a new material that is highly **convertible** and can be recycled into various forms."
            * "The economic system relies on a **convertible** currency, meaning it can be exchanged for gold or other assets."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Adaptable, changeable, transformable, adjustable; (Noun) Open-top car.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Inconvertible, fixed, unchangeable.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *convertere* (to turn around, to change).



.. _pattern:

================================================================================
Pattern
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpætən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A repeated decorative design or a regular arrangement of shapes or events.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "pattern" is a **repeated and predictable arrangement** of elements, whether in a design, a behavior, or a sequence of events.

**What it really means**: A "**pattern**" is a regular and repeated arrangement. This can be a visual design (e.g., "a checkered **pattern**") or a sequence of actions or events that happens repeatedly ("a **pattern** of behavior"). It suggests a sense of order and predictability.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a repeated design or a predictable arrangement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **pattern** of behavior," "a regular **pattern**," "a floral **pattern**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I noticed a **pattern** of small birds visiting my garden at the same time every morning."
            * "The wallpaper has a beautiful floral **pattern**."
            * "His sleep **pattern** has been very irregular lately."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report identifies a clear **pattern** of migration in the region over the last century."
            * "Researchers observed a consistent **pattern** of gene expression in the experimental group."
            * "The study attempts to predict future economic trends by analyzing historical spending **patterns**."
            * "The author's writing style follows a recognizable **pattern** of using long, complex sentences."

**Synonyms**: Design, arrangement, sequence, form, model, regularity.

**Opposite words**: Randomness, unpredictability, chaos, disorder.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *patron* (a model, a pattern).



.. _gradually:

================================================================================
Gradually
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɡrædʒʊəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Slowly and in stages.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "gradually" is to do something **slowly and progressively**, with small changes occurring over a period of time.

**What it really means**: "**Gradually**" is an adverb used to describe a change or a process that happens slowly and in small, incremental stages, not all at once. It suggests a smooth, step-by-step development. For example, if the weather gets colder **gradually**, it gets a little colder each day over a period of time.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a slow, step-by-step change or process.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**gradually** increase," "**gradually** change," "**gradually** improve."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The weather will **gradually** get warmer as we head into summer."
            * "He is **gradually** learning to play the guitar by practicing a little bit each day."
            * "The fog **gradually** lifted, revealing the mountains in the distance."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The research shows that a child's vocabulary develops **gradually** over a period of several years."
            * "The report notes that a successful transition to renewable energy will occur **gradually** through a series of policy changes and technological innovations."
            * "The patient’s condition began to **gradually** improve after the new medication was administered."
            * "The company's profits have been **gradually** increasing since the new CEO took charge."

**Synonyms**: Slowly, progressively, steadily, incrementally.

**Opposite words**: Suddenly, abruptly, instantly, immediately.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *gradus* (step, degree).



.. _anniversary:

================================================================================
Anniversary
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌænɪˈvɜːsəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The date on which an event took place in a previous year.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "anniversary" is the **yearly recurrence of a specific, notable date or event**.

**What it really means**: An "**anniversary**" is a day that is remembered and celebrated because a notable event happened on that day in a previous year. It is most commonly used for a wedding (**wedding anniversary**) or the founding of a company (**company anniversary**).

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the yearly celebration of a past event.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "**wedding anniversary**," "**anniversary** of an event," "celebrate an **anniversary**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My parents are celebrating their 25th wedding **anniversary** next month."
            * "Today is the **anniversary** of the day we first met."
            * "The company celebrated its 50th **anniversary** with a big party."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The country will observe the 100th **anniversary** of its independence with a national holiday."
            * "The report commemorates the 50th **anniversary** of the first moon landing and its lasting impact on science."
            * "The university hosted a conference to mark the 25th **anniversary** of the opening of its medical school."
            * "The treaty was signed on the **anniversary** of the end of the war, as a symbol of lasting peace."

**Synonyms**: Commemoration, jubilee, commemoration.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *annus* (year) + *vertere* (to turn).



.. _improvement:

================================================================================
Improvement
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪmˈpruːvmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process of getting better or making something better.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "improvement" is a **positive change or enhancement** that makes something better in quality, condition, or performance.

**What it really means**: An "**improvement**" is a positive change. It can be the act of making something better ("we need to make an **improvement** to the process") or the result of that act ("the new software is a big **improvement**"). The word suggests a change from a previous state that was not as good.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a positive change or enhancement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make an **improvement**," "a marked **improvement**," "room for **improvement**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There has been a huge **improvement** in her grades since she started studying more."
            * "The new road is a great **improvement** to the traffic flow in the city."
            * "There's always room for **improvement** in my cooking skills."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report identifies several areas where significant **improvement** is needed to meet international safety standards."
            * "The new policy is expected to lead to a marked **improvement** in public health and sanitation."
            * "The study concludes that technological innovation has been a key driver of **improvement** in agricultural productivity."
            * "The government's plan for infrastructure **improvement** includes building new bridges and railways."

**Synonyms**: Enhancement, advancement, progress, betterment.

**Opposite words**: Deterioration, decline, worsening, regression.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *emprouver* (to improve, to make better use of).



.. _foster:

================================================================================
Foster
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɒstə/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To encourage or promote the development of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "foster" is to **actively encourage the growth, development, or formation** of something, often a positive quality or relationship.

**What it really means**: To "**foster**" means to help something grow or develop. It is used to describe the act of nurturing and encouraging something. For example, a teacher might "**foster** a love of reading" in their students, or a manager might "**foster** a sense of teamwork" in their employees.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of encouraging the growth or development of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**foster** a sense of," "**foster** creativity," "**foster** development."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The teacher tries to **foster** creativity in her students."
            * "We need to **foster** a sense of community in our neighborhood."
            * "His parents always tried to **foster** a love of learning in him."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The new educational policy is designed to **foster** critical thinking skills among young people."
            * "The report highlights the importance of providing a supportive environment to **foster** economic development in the region."
            * "The program aims to **foster** collaboration between different research institutions."
            * "The government's initiatives seek to **foster** a climate of innovation among small businesses."

**Synonyms**: Promote, encourage, stimulate, cultivate, nurture.

**Opposite words**: Discourage, neglect, hinder, suppress, inhibit.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *fostrian* (to nourish, to bring up).



.. _invent:

================================================================================
Invent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈvɛnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To create or design something that has not existed before.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "invent" is to **create a new device, process, or idea** through original thought and experimentation, that has never existed before.

**What it really means**: To "**invent**" means to come up with a new idea or to create a new product that no one has thought of before. The word suggests a high degree of originality and creativity. For example, Thomas Edison **invented** the light bulb. It can also be used informally to mean to make something up or to lie.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of creating something new or making something up.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**invent** a device," "**invent** a story," "**invent** a solution."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My grandfather likes to **invent** stories to tell his grandchildren."
            * "She **invented** a new way to organize her books."
            * "Who do you think will **invent** the next great thing?"
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "Scientists are working to **invent** a new type of battery that can store more energy for longer periods."
            * "The report discusses the challenges faced by companies that aim to **invent** groundbreaking technologies in a highly competitive market."
            * "The patent office was created to protect the rights of those who **invent** new and useful processes."
            * "The committee praised the team for their ability to **invent** a creative solution to a complex engineering problem."

**Synonyms**: Create, devise, originate, design, formulate, coin.

**Opposite words**: Copy, imitate, reproduce, borrow.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *invenire* (to come upon, to find).



.. _relieve:

================================================================================
Relieve
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈliːv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To cause a difficult or unpleasant feeling to become less intense.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "relieve" is to **reduce the intensity of pain, distress, or a burden**, providing comfort or assistance.

**What it really means**: To "**relieve**" means to make a bad situation or a bad feeling better. It is used to describe the act of lessening pain ("to **relieve** a headache") or stress ("to **relieve** tension"). It can also mean to take over someone's duty or position ("to **relieve** the guard").

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of making a bad situation or feeling better.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**relieve** pain," "**relieve** stress," "**relieve** a guard."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new medicine can **relieve** your headache very quickly."
            * "Talking to a friend can sometimes **relieve** the stress of a long day."
            * "I'll go **relieve** the babysitter so she can go home."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The government's new policy is intended to **relieve** the financial burden on low-income families."
            * "The report highlights the need for a new program to **relieve** the overcrowding in the city's public transportation system."
            * "The charity's mission is to **relieve** poverty and hunger in developing countries."
            * "The new technology is expected to **relieve** some of the pressure on overworked medical staff."

**Synonyms**: Ease, soothe, lessen, alleviate, mitigate.

**Opposite words**: Intensify, increase, aggravate, worsen, burden.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *relever* (to lift up, to raise), from Latin *re-* (again) + *levare* (to lighten).



.. _plentifully:

================================================================================
Plentifully
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈplɛntɪfəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In large amounts; in abundance.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "plentifully" is to have something **in great abundance or in large quantities**, far more than what is needed.

**What it really means**: "**Plentifully**" is an adverb used to describe something that exists in large quantities. It suggests a sense of abundance and a lack of scarcity. For example, if food is available **plentifully**, there is a lot of it and no one needs to worry about running out.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that exists in large amounts or abundance.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "to be supplied **plentifully**," "available **plentifully**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The fruit trees in the garden are producing fruit **plentifully** this year."
            * "Water is available **plentifully** in the spring, so we don't need to worry."
            * "The town square was **plentifully** decorated for the festival."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The region's rich soil allows crops to grow **plentifully**, supporting a large agricultural industry."
            * "The report suggests that the company has invested **plentifully** in research and development over the last decade."
            * "The forest provides resources so **plentifully** that the local population can live sustainably without damaging the ecosystem."
            * "The new technology ensures that clean energy can be produced **plentifully** and at a low cost."

**Synonyms**: Abundantly, copiously, generously, lavishly, profusely.

**Opposite words**: Scarcely, sparsely, minimally, meagerly, rarely.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *plente* (fullness), from Latin *plenus* (full).



.. _breed:

================================================================================
Breed
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/briːd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To mate animals to produce young; (Noun) A specific type of animal.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning for the **verb** is to **mate animals or to produce offspring**. For the **noun**, it is a **specific type or variety** of animal within a species, developed through selective mating.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**breed**" means to produce young, usually of animals. It can be natural, as in wild animals that **breed** in the spring, or controlled by humans, as in a farmer who **breeds** cattle. As a **noun**, a "**breed**" is a particular type or variety of animal, such as a **breed** of dog or horse.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to talk about producing young, or the noun to refer to a specific type of animal.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**breed** animals," "to **breed** true."
        * **(Noun)** "a specific **breed**," "a pure **breed**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We are trying to **breed** our dogs to have a specific coat color."
            * "My dog is a mixed **breed**, so I'm not sure what kind she is."
            * "Rabbits **breed** very quickly, which is why there are so many of them."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The study aims to **breed** a new variety of corn that is resistant to drought."
            * "The document outlines the importance of preserving certain rare **breeds** of livestock for genetic diversity."
            * "Scientists are working on a new technique to **breed** fish that grow faster in aquaculture farms."
            * "The animal's unique characteristics are a result of careful selective **breeding** over many generations."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Reproduce, procreate, raise; (Noun) Variety, type, kind, strain.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Sterilize.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *brēdan* (to give birth to, to nourish).



.. _rarely:

================================================================================
Rarely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrɛərli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not often; seldom.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "rarely" is to describe an action that occurs **infrequently or at long intervals**, suggesting that it is an unusual event.

**What it really means**: "**Rarely**" is an adverb used to describe an action that happens very seldom or not often. It is the opposite of "often" or "**regularly**." For example, if it **rarely** snows where you live, it means that snowfall is an uncommon event.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happens very seldom.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**rarely** see," "**rarely** happen," "**rarely** used."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "It **rarely** rains in the desert, so the plants have to be very tough."
            * "We **rarely** see each other anymore since we moved to different cities."
            * "I **rarely** eat fast food because it's not very healthy."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report suggests that this type of complication **rarely** occurs in patients who receive the new treatment."
            * "The species is so endangered that it is **rarely** seen in the wild anymore."
            * "It is **rarely** the case that a single factor can explain a complex phenomenon like climate change."
            * "The museum's collection contains artifacts that are so old and fragile they are **rarely** displayed to the public."

**Synonyms**: Seldom, infrequently, uncommonly, hardly ever.

**Opposite words**: Often, frequently, regularly, commonly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *rare* (thin, infrequent).



.. _excitedly:

================================================================================
Excitedly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈsaɪtɪdli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: With great enthusiasm and eagerness.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "excitedly" is to do something **with strong feelings of happiness and enthusiasm**, showing a great deal of eagerness or anticipation.

**What it really means**: "**Excitedly**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done with great enthusiasm and eagerness. It suggests a sense of anticipation or happiness. For example, if a child opens a present **excitedly**, they are very happy and eager to see what's inside.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe an action that is done with enthusiasm and eagerness.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "to speak **excitedly**," "to jump **excitedly**," "to wait **excitedly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The children waited **excitedly** for the birthday party to start."
            * "She told me **excitedly** about her new job."
            * "He ran **excitedly** into the room to show everyone his new toy."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the public **reacted** **excitedly** to the news of the new technological breakthrough."
            * "The document describes how the early explorers **excitedly** reported their discoveries back to their home country."
            * "The press conference ended as the scientists **excitedly** prepared to present their findings to a global audience."
            * "The new policy was **excitedly** received by industry leaders who had been lobbying for change."

**Synonyms**: Enthusiastically, eagerly, eagerly, joyfully, passionately, animatedly.

**Opposite words**: Calmly, sadly, unenthusiastically, reluctantly, apathetically.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *excitare* (to rouse, to stimulate).


.. _urgently:

================================================================================
Urgently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɜːdʒəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that requires immediate action or attention.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "urgently" is to do something with a **pressing need for immediate action**, implying that a delay could have negative consequences.

**What it really means**: "**Urgently**" is an adverb used to describe an action that must be done right away. It conveys a sense of strong need or high priority. For example, if you need to speak to someone **urgently**, it means the matter cannot wait.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe an action that needs to be done immediately or with a high priority.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "need to **urgently**," "request **urgently**," "act **urgently**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need you to come to my office **urgently**."
            * "The patient needs to be seen **urgently** by a doctor."
            * "They called me **urgently** to discuss the new project."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights the **urgently** required need for new policies to address climate change."
            * "To prevent the spread of the virus, the government must act **urgently** to implement public health measures."
            * "The document states that the team must **urgently** resolve the technical issue to avoid a system-wide failure."
            * "International aid was **urgently** dispatched to the region following the natural disaster."

**Synonyms**: Immediately, pressingly, critically, desperately, instantly.

**Opposite words**: Casually, leisurely, slowly, calmly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *urgere* (to press, to push).



.. _accessible:

================================================================================
Accessible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əkˈsɛsɪbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Easy to approach, enter, or use.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "accessible" is the **quality of being available or easy to reach, enter, or understand**. It implies a lack of barriers.

**What it really means**: "**Accessible**" is an adjective used to describe something that is easy to reach or use. It can refer to a physical place ("the building is **accessible** to people in wheelchairs") or information or a service ("the information is not easily **accessible** online").

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is easy to get to or to use.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**accessible** to," "easily **accessible**," "publicly **accessible**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new ramp makes the building **accessible** to everyone."
            * "This book is written in a simple style, so it's very **accessible** to beginners."
            * "The information is not publicly **accessible** and requires a password to view."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The government's plan aims to make public transportation more **accessible** to residents in rural areas."
            * "The report emphasizes the need for all educational materials to be digitally **accessible** to students with disabilities."
            * "To ensure the **accessible** of clean water, the organization is installing new wells in remote villages."
            * "The new museum was designed to be easily **accessible** to both local and international visitors."

**Synonyms**: Reachable, available, approachable, understandable.

**Opposite words**: Inaccessible, unreachable, unavailable, impenetrable.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *accessibilis*, from *accedere* (to approach).



.. _originally:

================================================================================
Originally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈrɪdʒɪnəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: From the beginning or in the first place.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "originally" is to refer to the **initial or foundational state of something**, before any changes or developments occurred.

**What it really means**: "**Originally**" is an adverb used to describe how something was at the very start. It is often used to contrast the past state with the present state. For example, a house may have been **originally** a small cottage, but it has now been renovated and is much larger.

**When to use it**: Use it when talking about how something was in the beginning.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**originally** from," "**originally** intended," "**originally** planned."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The restaurant was **originally** a small coffee shop."
            * "He is **originally** from Germany, but he now lives in London."
            * "The plan was **originally** to leave at 8 a.m., but we're running late."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The research article examines the species that **originally** inhabited the island before human settlement."
            * "The document outlines the purpose for which the building was **originally** designed, and how its function has since changed."
            * "The data shows that the company's market strategy was **originally** aimed at a younger demographic."
            * "The word 'awful' **originally** meant 'full of awe' before its meaning changed over time."

**Synonyms**: Initially, at first, primarily, at the outset.

**Opposite words**: Finally, subsequently, eventually.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *originalis* (primitive).



.. _inconvenience:

================================================================================
Inconvenience
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪnkənˈviːniəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) Trouble or difficulty; (Verb) To cause trouble or difficulty.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning is a **minor difficulty, problem, or disruption** that causes trouble or annoyance, but not significant harm.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, an "**inconvenience**" is a minor problem or a situation that causes a slight amount of trouble or annoyance. As a **verb**, to "**inconvenience**" someone means to cause them a slight amount of trouble or difficulty. It's often used with an apology to minimize the issue.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a minor difficulty or to describe the act of causing one.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a slight **inconvenience**," "cause an **inconvenience**."
        * **(Verb)** "**inconvenience** someone."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I'm sorry for the **inconvenience**, but the flight is delayed."
            * "I hope this doesn't **inconvenience** you too much."
            * "Having to drive to the next town was a major **inconvenience**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the temporary road closure may cause a minor **inconvenience** to local residents."
            * "We apologize for any **inconvenience** caused by the unexpected system maintenance."
            * "To avoid **inconvenience**, customers are advised to check the service status online before traveling."
            * "The new regulations were implemented to prevent future **inconveniences** for international trade."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Nuisance, hassle, trouble; (Verb) Bother, disturb, trouble.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Convenience, ease, comfort; (Verb) Assist, help, accommodate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *in-* (not) + *convenire* (to be suitable).



.. _correctly:

================================================================================
Correctly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˈrɛktli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is true or accurate.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "correctly" is to do something **without error**, in a way that is factually or logically right according to a standard.

**What it really means**: "**Correctly**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done without mistakes. It implies a sense of accuracy and truthfulness. For example, if you answer a question **correctly**, your answer is right. If you follow instructions **correctly**, you don't make any errors.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without error or in a true way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "answer **correctly**," "do something **correctly**," "spell something **correctly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Make sure you spell my name **correctly**."
            * "I didn't answer the question **correctly** on the test."
            * "If you follow the instructions **correctly**, the machine will work perfectly."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "To ensure the accuracy of the experiment, all variables must be measured **correctly** and consistently."
            * "The report argues that the data has not been interpreted **correctly** by the opposing researchers."
            * "The software must be installed **correctly** for all its functions to work as intended."
            * "It is crucial to cite sources **correctly** to avoid plagiarism and ensure academic integrity."

**Synonyms**: Accurately, rightly, precisely, properly, truly.

**Opposite words**: Incorrectly, wrongly, inaccurately, improperly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *correctus* (to make straight, to improve).



.. _destruction:

================================================================================
Destruction
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstrʌkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action or process of causing so much damage that something is destroyed.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "destruction" is the **total ruin or demolition of something**, to the point where it ceases to exist or is no longer functional.

**What it really means**: "**Destruction**" is a noun that refers to the act of destroying something or the state of being destroyed. It implies complete ruin, often on a large scale. This can be the **destruction** of a building, a forest, or an entire civilization.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of ruining or demolishing something, or the state of ruin.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "mass **destruction**," "cause **destruction**," "bring about **destruction**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The fire caused the complete **destruction** of the old house."
            * "The earthquake caused a lot of **destruction** in the city."
            * "The flood led to the **destruction** of crops and homes."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report assesses the level of **destruction** caused by the hurricane on the coastal infrastructure."
            * "The ongoing conflict has led to the widespread **destruction** of cultural heritage sites."
            * "The document highlights the environmental **destruction** caused by deforestation and industrial pollution."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent the **destruction** of data from cyber attacks."

**Synonyms**: Ruin, devastation, demolition, annihilation, wreckage.

**Opposite words**: Creation, construction, preservation, restoration, building.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *destructio* (a tearing down).



.. _angrily:

================================================================================
Angrily
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈæŋɡrɪli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In an angry manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "angrily" is to do something **with feelings of strong displeasure or annoyance**, often expressed through a raised voice or aggressive behavior.

**What it really means**: "**Angrily**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done in an angry way. It tells you that the person doing the action is feeling strong emotions like anger, frustration, or fury. For example, if someone speaks **angrily**, their tone of voice is sharp and aggressive.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe an action that is performed in an angry manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "to shout **angrily**," "to storm out **angrily**," "to respond **angrily**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He shouted **angrily** when he found out his car was damaged."
            * "She slammed the door **angrily** and left the room."
            * "The customer **angrily** complained about the poor service."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that protesters **angrily** demonstrated against the new policy in the city square."
            * "In the debate, the opposing politician **angrily** challenged the speaker's claims."
            * "The article describes how local residents **angrily** confronted the company over its plans to build a new factory."
            * "The committee **angrily** rejected the proposal, citing a lack of transparency and financial viability."

**Synonyms**: Furiously, fiercely, indignantly, crossly, irately.

**Opposite words**: Calmly, gently, happily, peacefully, placidly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old Norse *angr* (sorrow, grief).



.. _excavate:

================================================================================
Excavate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɛkskəveɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To dig out material from the ground.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "excavate" is to **dig a hole or to expose something buried** by carefully removing the surrounding material.

**What it really means**: To "**excavate**" means to dig a hole or a trench in the ground. It is most often used in archaeology to describe the careful digging to find and remove old artifacts or buildings, or in construction for digging foundations. The word implies a systematic and careful process of removal.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of digging or uncovering something from the ground.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**excavate** a site," "**excavate** a fossil," "**excavate** a foundation."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We need to **excavate** the garden to plant the new trees."
            * "The workers are going to **excavate** a large hole for the swimming pool."
            * "The archaeologists plan to **excavate** the entire ancient city."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The team will **excavate** the site to a depth of three meters to search for pottery and other artifacts."
            * "The report describes the techniques used to **excavate** the dinosaur fossils from the rock formation without causing damage."
            * "Before construction can begin, engineers must **excavate** the area to prepare the foundation."
            * "Historians often use new technology to help them **excavate** and interpret ancient texts."

**Synonyms**: Dig, unearth, uncover, hollow out, delve.

**Opposite words**: Bury, fill in, cover up.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *excavare* (to hollow out).



.. _considerable:

================================================================================
Considerable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈsɪdərəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Notably large in size, amount, or extent.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "considerable" is to be **large or important enough to be worthy of attention**, having a significant size or impact.

**What it really means**: "**Considerable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is large, great, or important. It is used to emphasize the scale or importance of something. For example, a "**considerable** amount of money" is a large sum, and a "**considerable** challenge" is a difficult one.

**When to use it**: Use it to emphasize the size, amount, or importance of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **considerable** amount," "a **considerable** number," "a **considerable** challenge."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He spent a **considerable** amount of time on his project."
            * "There has been a **considerable** improvement in the weather today."
            * "The new building took a **considerable** amount of effort to complete."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report shows a **considerable** increase in consumer spending during the last quarter."
            * "The study involved a **considerable** number of participants to ensure the statistical significance of the results."
            * "The transition to a new system presents a **considerable** challenge for the entire organization."
            * "The new dam has had a **considerable** impact on the local ecosystem and water supply."

**Synonyms**: Substantial, significant, large, great, notable, remarkable.

**Opposite words**: Insignificant, minor, negligible, trivial, slight.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *considerare* (to look at closely).



.. _variance:

================================================================================
Variance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈveəriəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The fact or quality of being different, or a disagreement.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "variance" is the **state of being different or a measure of the degree of difference** between things, often from a standard or average.

**What it really means**: "**Variance**" is a noun that refers to a difference or a disagreement. In a general sense, it means a difference between two or more things ("a **variance** in their opinions"). In a technical or scientific sense, it refers to a statistical measure of how far a set of numbers is spread out from their average value.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a difference or a statistical measure of difference.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **variance** in," "show a **variance**," "at **variance** with."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There's a significant **variance** in the prices of the same item at different stores."
            * "His actions were at **variance** with his stated beliefs."
            * "The two weather reports showed a noticeable **variance** in their predictions."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The study found a high **variance** in the test scores of students from different educational backgrounds."
            * "The report highlights a significant **variance** between the projected budget and the actual expenditures."
            * "The legal document notes a **variance** in the testimony of the two witnesses."
            * "In statistics, **variance** is a key measure of the dispersion of a set of data points around their mean."

**Synonyms**: Difference, discrepancy, variation, divergence, disagreement, inconsistency.

**Opposite words**: Agreement, consistency, uniformity, sameness, conformity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *varians* (varying).



.. _injure:

================================================================================
Injure
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɪndʒə/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To cause physical harm or damage to someone or something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "injure" is to **cause physical harm, damage, or pain** to a person, an animal, or a part of their body.

**What it really means**: To "**injure**" means to cause harm or damage to a living thing. This can be a physical wound ("he **injured** his knee playing football") or a mental harm ("his words **injured** her feelings"). It suggests an action that results in pain, damage, or suffering.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of causing physical or mental harm.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**injure** oneself," "**injure** a person," "**injure** a reputation."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He fell and **injured** his ankle."
            * "The accident **injured** several people, but nobody was killed."
            * "You could **injure** your back if you lift that heavy box by yourself."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report details the number of people who were **injured** during the natural disaster."
            * "The company was fined for failing to protect its workers, resulting in several employees being **injured** on the job."
            * "A strong policy is needed to prevent activities that might **injure** the delicate ecosystem of the protected forest."
            * "The lawyer argued that the defendant's actions **injured** the reputation of the company."

**Synonyms**: Harm, hurt, damage, wound, impair, maim.

**Opposite words**: Heal, cure, mend, help, protect.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *injuria* (an injury, wrong).



.. _trait:

================================================================================
Trait
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/treɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A distinguishing quality or characteristic.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "trait" is a **specific quality, characteristic, or feature that defines or distinguishes** a person, an animal, or a plant.

**What it really means**: A "**trait**" is a specific quality or characteristic of a person or a thing. It's often used to talk about personality, such as being kind or honest ("a key **trait** of his personality"). It can also be a physical characteristic that is passed down genetically.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a distinguishing quality or characteristic.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a personality **trait**," "a genetic **trait**," "a distinguishing **trait**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Honesty is a **trait** I value highly in a friend."
            * "The dog's friendly nature is a common **trait** of its breed."
            * "One of the most important **traits** of a good leader is integrity."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The study found that creativity is a **trait** that is often associated with higher academic achievement."
            * "The report identifies several key **traits** of successful entrepreneurs, including resilience and adaptability."
            * "The genetic **trait** for blue eyes is a recessive one, meaning it does not appear as often."
            * "The architecture of the building exhibits several **traits** that are characteristic of the neoclassical period."

**Synonyms**: Characteristic, quality, feature, attribute, property, aspect.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *trait* (a stroke, a line).



.. _insufficiently:

================================================================================
Insufficiently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪnsəˈfɪʃəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To an inadequate degree; not enough.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "insufficiently" is to do something **in an inadequate or lacking way**, falling short of what is required or needed.

**What it really means**: "**Insufficiently**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done without a sufficient amount of something. It suggests a lack of something that is needed, such as money, time, or effort. For example, if a plant is watered **insufficiently**, it doesn't get enough water and may die.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with a lack of what is needed.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**insufficiently** funded," "**insufficiently** prepared," "**insufficiently** tested."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The team was **insufficiently** prepared for the difficult match."
            * "The government's plan was **insufficiently** funded, so it couldn't be completed."
            * "The evidence was **insufficiently** clear to make a decision."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the current public transportation system is **insufficiently** developed to meet the city's growing population."
            * "The study was criticized for being **insufficiently** rigorous in its methodology and data collection."
            * "A key finding of the research is that the policy was **insufficiently** communicated to the public."
            * "The new software, which was **insufficiently** tested before its release, has been causing numerous technical problems."

**Synonyms**: Inadequately, lacking, deficiently, poorly, sparingly.

**Opposite words**: Sufficiently, adequately, fully, completely, properly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *in-* (not) + *sufficere* (to be enough).



.. _honestly:

================================================================================
Honestly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɒnɪstli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a truthful or fair way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "honestly" is to do something **with truthfulness and sincerity**, without lying, cheating, or deceit.

**What it really means**: "**Honestly**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done truthfully. It can mean telling the truth ("to answer a question **honestly**") or acting in a fair and upright manner ("to deal **honestly** with a customer"). It is also used conversationally to add emphasis, meaning "to be truthful with you."

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done truthfully or fairly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "to speak **honestly**," "to deal **honestly**," "tell me **honestly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He answered all the questions **honestly**."
            * "To be **honestly** with you, I don't think that's a good idea."
            * "If you behave **honestly**, you will always be trusted."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The survey asked participants to **honestly** report their daily habits and consumption patterns."
            * "The report commends the company for its commitment to acting **honestly** and ethically in all its business dealings."
            * "For a scientific study to be valid, all researchers must **honestly** report their findings, even if they contradict their hypothesis."
            * "The document advises that all financial data be recorded **honestly** and transparently to avoid legal issues."

**Synonyms**: Truthfully, sincerely, candidly, fairly, ethically.

**Opposite words**: Dishonestly, deceitfully, untruthfully, fraudulently.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *honeste*, from Latin *honestus* (honorable, respectable).



.. _consequent:

================================================================================
Consequent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɒnsɪkwənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Happening as a result of something else.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "consequent" is to be **a direct result or effect of a preceding event or action**.

**What it really means**: "**Consequent**" is an adjective used to describe something that happens as a direct result of something else. It is often used to link a cause and effect. For example, a flood could be a **consequent** effect of heavy rainfall. It is less common than its related adverb, "consequently."

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is a direct result of a previous event.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**consequent** effect," "**consequent** change," "**consequent** result."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "His lack of sleep had a **consequent** effect on his mood."
            * "The traffic jam was a **consequent** result of the car accident."
            * "The increase in prices was a **consequent** change after the new tax was introduced."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the economic effects of the policy and the **consequent** changes in consumer behavior."
            * "The document outlines the environmental damage and the **consequent** need for protective measures."
            * "The study found that a rise in global temperatures has a **consequent** impact on melting polar ice caps."
            * "The **consequent** need for a more sustainable energy source became evident after the oil crisis."

**Synonyms**: Resulting, resultant, ensuing, following, succeeding.

**Opposite words**: Antecedent, preceding, prior, initial.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *consequens* (following).



.. _distinction:

================================================================================
Distinction
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstɪŋkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A difference or contrast between similar things or people.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "distinction" is the **quality or fact of being different**, especially a clear difference that makes one thing or person stand out from others.

**What it really means**: A "**distinction**" is a difference between things that are otherwise similar. It can be a subtle difference that requires careful observation to notice ("the **distinction** between the two words"). It can also mean a mark of honor or a special quality ("to graduate with **distinction**").

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a difference or to a special honor.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make a **distinction**," "a clear **distinction**," "a mark of **distinction**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "It's important to make a **distinction** between what is a fact and what is an opinion."
            * "There is a clear **distinction** between his writing style and hers."
            * "He graduated from university with **distinction**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report draws a crucial **distinction** between correlation and causation in the data."
            * "The study's findings are important for making a **distinction** between the two types of bacteria."
            * "The document highlights the key **distinctions** between the two competing theories of economic development."
            * "A **distinction** must be made between the company's public image and its internal practices."

**Synonyms**: Difference, contrast, differentiation, separation, nuance.

**Opposite words**: Sameness, similarity, conformity, resemblance, uniformity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *distinctio* (a separation).



.. _confuse:

================================================================================
Confuse
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈfjuːz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To make someone unable to think clearly or understand.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "confuse" is to **mix up or make something unclear**, causing a lack of mental clarity or order.

**What it really means**: To "**confuse**" means to make someone feel unable to think clearly or understand something. It can also mean to mistake one thing for another ("I always **confuse** you with your brother"). The word suggests a lack of order or clarity, either in a person's mind or in a situation.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of making something unclear or making someone unable to think clearly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**confuse** someone," "**confuse** A with B," "get **confused**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The complicated instructions really **confuse** me."
            * "I always **confuse** you and your sister because you look so much alike."
            * "I think he's trying to **confuse** us so we don't know the truth."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report's use of jargon may **confuse** readers who are not experts in the field."
            * "The data is presented in a way that is likely to **confuse** the public about the real state of the economy."
            * "It's easy to **confuse** the symptoms of the common cold with those of the flu."
            * "The court case was complicated and designed to **confuse** the jury about the facts."

**Synonyms**: Perplex, bewilder, muddle, mystify, mix up.

**Opposite words**: Clarify, explain, enlighten, simplify, distinguish.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *confundere* (to pour together).



.. _resolution:

================================================================================
Resolution
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌrɛzəˈluːʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of finding a solution to a problem; a formal decision.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "resolution" is the **firm determination to do something**, or the **process of finding a solution to a problem or conflict**.

**What it really means**: A "**resolution**" is a solution to a problem ("the **resolution** of a conflict") or a firm decision to do something ("a New Year's **resolution**"). It can also be a formal statement of opinion or a promise. In technical terms, it refers to the quality of an image, showing its level of detail.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a solution, a firm decision, or a formal statement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "find a **resolution**," "pass a **resolution**," "high **resolution**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We need to find a peaceful **resolution** to our disagreement."
            * "My New Year's **resolution** is to exercise more."
            * "The computer screen has a very high **resolution**, so the image is very clear."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report recommends a number of steps to achieve a rapid **resolution** of the conflict."
            * "The United Nations Security Council passed a **resolution** condemning the actions of the aggressor nation."
            * "The study's primary goal is to find a **resolution** to the problem of air pollution in urban areas."
            * "The new camera's high **resolution** allows for the detailed analysis of microscopic images."

**Synonyms**: Solution, conclusion, decision, determination, firmness.

**Opposite words**: Indecision, ambiguity, irresolution, problem, dispute.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *resolutio* (a loosening, an analysis).



.. _component:

================================================================================
Component
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəmˈpəʊnənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A part of a larger whole.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "component" is a **constituent part or element of a larger system or whole**, which is necessary for its function.

**What it really means**: A "**component**" is one of the parts that make up a larger whole. For example, a car's engine is a **component** of the car. It can be a physical part of a machine or an abstract part of an idea or a system.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a part of a larger whole.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a key **component**," "an essential **component**," "a single **component**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The engine is a very important **component** of the car."
            * "Trust is a key **component** of any healthy relationship."
            * "The recipe has several main **components** that you need to prepare separately."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report analyzes the various **components** of the new economic policy and their potential impact."
            * "A successful education system must have a strong vocational **component** in addition to academic learning."
            * "The study concludes that a lack of protein is a missing **component** in the diet of many people in the region."
            * "The rocket is made up of thousands of individual **components**, all working together to function as a whole."

**Synonyms**: Part, element, section, piece, ingredient, constituent.

**Opposite words**: Whole, entirety, totality, sum.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *componere* (to put together).



.. _thick:

================================================================================
Thick
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/θɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Having a large distance between opposite sides; not thin.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "thick" is to have a **large or substantial dimension** in one direction, such as a large depth or diameter, often suggesting solidity or density.

**What it really means**: "**Thick**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not thin. It can refer to a physical object ("a **thick** book") or a fluid ("**thick** soup"). It can also be used to describe air that is difficult to see through ("a **thick** fog") or to describe something that is dense or plentiful ("**thick** hair").

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not thin, dense, or plentiful.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**thick** fog," "a **thick** book," "a **thick** accent."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need a **thick** blanket for the cold weather."
            * "The forest was so **thick** we couldn't see the path."
            * "He has a very **thick** accent, so it's hard to understand him."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the outer layer of the material is a **thick** coating of protective plastic."
            * "The study found that in areas with a **thick** canopy of trees, the air quality is significantly better."
            * "The document highlights the importance of using **thick** glass for the windows to provide better insulation and soundproofing."
            * "The **thick** walls of the ancient castle have survived many battles over the centuries."

**Synonyms**: Dense, broad, bulky, deep, substantial.

**Opposite words**: Thin, narrow, fine, sparse, watery.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *þicce* (dense, compact).



.. _domestic:

================================================================================
Domestic
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dəˈmɛstɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Relating to the home or family; (Noun) A household servant.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning is to be **related to one's own home, family, or country**, as opposed to foreign or public.

**What it really means**: "**Domestic**" is an adjective that refers to things related to the home, the family, or one's own country. For example, "**domestic** duties" are household chores, and "**domestic** flights" are flights within a single country. It is often used to distinguish from "foreign."

**When to use it**: Use it to describe things related to the home or one's own country.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**domestic** violence," "**domestic** animal," "**domestic** affairs."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The dog is a **domestic** animal, so it's used to living with humans."
            * "My job requires a lot of travel, both **domestic** and international."
            * "We need to deal with a few **domestic** issues before we go on vacation."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report analyzes the growth of **domestic** tourism as a key driver of the national economy."
            * "The government's new policy focuses on improving **domestic** production and reducing reliance on imports."
            * "The document highlights the need for a stronger legal framework to address cases of **domestic** violence."
            * "The study examines how **domestic** energy consumption has changed over the last two decades."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Household, family, internal, national, home-based; (Noun) Servant.

**Opposite words**: Foreign, international, global, external, public.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *domesticus* (of the house).



.. _sustainable:

================================================================================
Sustainable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈsteɪnəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be maintained at a certain rate or level.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "sustainable" is the **ability to be maintained or upheld over a long period** without exhausting natural resources or causing severe environmental damage.

**What it really means**: "**Sustainable**" is an adjective used to describe something that can be continued or maintained without a negative impact on the future. It is most often used in the context of the environment, such as "**sustainable** energy" or a "**sustainable** economy." The idea is to meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that can be maintained over time without causing harm.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**sustainable** development," "**sustainable** energy," "**sustainable** living."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We need to find a more **sustainable** way to manage our waste."
            * "The restaurant focuses on using **sustainable** ingredients from local farms."
            * "Riding a bike to work is a **sustainable** form of transportation."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report outlines a new strategy for **sustainable** economic development that prioritizes environmental protection."
            * "The study explores the challenges of transitioning to a **sustainable** energy system based entirely on renewable resources."
            * "The concept of **sustainable** agriculture involves farming methods that do not deplete natural resources."
            * "International agreements are in place to ensure **sustainable** fishing practices in our oceans."

**Synonyms**: Viable, long-term, eco-friendly, maintainable, durable.

**Opposite words**: Unsustainable, temporary, unviable, damaging.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sustinere* (to hold up, to support).



.. _acceptability:

================================================================================
Acceptability
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əkˌsɛptəˈbɪlɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The quality of being satisfactory and able to be accepted.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "acceptability" is the **quality or state of being considered satisfactory, worthy, or suitable** to be accepted by others or to meet a certain standard.

**What it really means**: "**Acceptability**" is a noun that refers to the quality of being acceptable. It is used to talk about whether something meets a certain standard, rule, or expectation. For example, the "**acceptability** of the report" refers to whether the report is good enough to be approved.

**When to use it**: Use it to talk about the quality of being acceptable or satisfactory.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **acceptability** of," "to check for **acceptability**," "a high degree of **acceptability**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We need to check the **acceptability** of the new products with our customers."
            * "The **acceptability** of the new rule was discussed for a long time."
            * "The low price gives this new car a high degree of **acceptability** in the market."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report assesses the public **acceptability** of the proposed new tax policy."
            * "The study examines the social and cultural factors that influence the **acceptability** of genetically modified foods."
            * "The legal document outlines the criteria for the **acceptability** of evidence in court."
            * "The new medical treatment must undergo rigorous testing to prove its safety and **acceptability** before it can be used on humans."

**Synonyms**: Acceptableness, suitability, approval, legitimacy, appropriateness.

**Opposite words**: Unacceptability, unsuitability, disapproval, rejection.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *acceptare* (to take, to receive).



.. _intervention:

================================================================================
Intervention
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪntəˈvɛnʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of becoming involved in a situation to influence its outcome.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "intervention" is the **act of stepping in or interfering in a situation** to influence its course, often to prevent a negative outcome.

**What it really means**: An "**intervention**" is the act of getting involved in a situation to change what is happening. This can be a military **intervention** in a country, a medical **intervention** to save a patient, or a social **intervention** to help a person with a problem. The word suggests a deliberate and often decisive action.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of getting involved in a situation.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "military **intervention**," "a medical **intervention**," "require **intervention**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The argument was so bad that it required the **intervention** of a teacher."
            * "I think he needs a medical **intervention** to help with his addiction."
            * "The United Nations is considering a military **intervention** to stop the fighting."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report calls for a government **intervention** to regulate the financial sector and prevent future crises."
            * "The study examines the effectiveness of early educational **intervention** on a child's long-term academic success."
            * "The document outlines the conditions under which international **intervention** is legally permissible."
            * "A swift **intervention** by the emergency services prevented a much larger disaster."

**Synonyms**: Interference, involvement, mediation, intercession, action, influence.

**Opposite words**: Non-intervention, abstention, noninterference, neglect.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *intervenire* (to come between).



.. _fail:

================================================================================
Fail
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/feɪl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To be unsuccessful in achieving something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "fail" is to **be unsuccessful in achieving a goal or a desired outcome**, or to fall short of an expectation.

**What it really means**: To "**fail**" means to be unsuccessful at something. It can refer to a student who **fails** an exam, a machine that **fails** to work, or a plan that **fails**. The word suggests a lack of success or an inability to meet a standard.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of being unsuccessful or not working properly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**fail** a test," "a plan **fails**," "**fail** to do something."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I hope I don't **fail** my driving test this time."
            * "The experiment **failed** because we used the wrong chemicals."
            * "He **failed** to show up for our meeting, and I'm very upset."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes that the project **failed** to meet its key objectives due to a lack of funding and poor management."
            * "When a government's policies **fail** to address the needs of its people, social unrest may follow."
            * "The study examines why some new businesses **fail** within their first five years."
            * "The new system is designed to notify users immediately if any of its **components fail** to operate correctly."

**Synonyms**: Flop, be unsuccessful, fall short, miscarry, disappoint.

**Opposite words**: Succeed, pass, achieve, triumph, win.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *faillir* (to be lacking, to fall short).



.. _simultaneous:

================================================================================
Simultaneous
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌsɪməlˈteɪniəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Occurring at the same time.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "simultaneous" is to happen or exist **at the exact same time**, indicating a synchrony of events.

**What it really means**: "**Simultaneous**" is an adjective used to describe two or more things that happen at the same time. For example, **simultaneous** translation means that a speaker is being translated at the same time they are speaking. It suggests that there is no time lag between the events.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe things that happen at the same time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**simultaneous** events," "**simultaneous** actions," "**simultaneous** translation."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The two news channels were reporting the same story at the same time, giving a **simultaneous** broadcast."
            * "The show has **simultaneous** performances in two different cities."
            * "You can't do both tasks **simultaneously**; you have to do one after the other."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report analyzes the impact of two **simultaneous** economic policies on the national market."
            * "The experiment requires the **simultaneous** measurement of temperature and pressure at several different points."
            * "The document outlines the legal challenges of two **simultaneous** lawsuits being brought against the company."
            * "The study of astronomy often involves the **simultaneous** observation of the same star from different locations."

**Synonyms**: Concurrent, coexisting, synchronized, parallel, concurrent.

**Opposite words**: Separate, successive, sequential, consecutive.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *simul* (at the same time).



.. _coherently:

================================================================================
Coherently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəʊˈhɪərəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is logical and well-organized.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "coherently" is to do something **in a logical, consistent, and easy-to-understand manner**, with all parts fitting together.

**What it really means**: "**Coherently**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done in a way that is clear and easy to understand. It is often used to describe speech or writing that is well-organized and logical. For example, if you explain a complex idea **coherently**, you explain it in a way that makes sense and is easy to follow.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a clear, logical, and well-organized way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "to speak **coherently**," "to write **coherently**," "to think **coherently**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was so tired that he could barely speak **coherently**."
            * "I need to write this essay **coherently** so my teacher can understand it."
            * "The meeting went well because everyone was able to present their ideas **coherently**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report's conclusions are presented **coherently** and are supported by a strong body of evidence."
            * "The study's methodology is not explained **coherently**, which raises questions about the validity of its findings."
            * "For an argument to be persuasive, it must be developed and articulated **coherently**."
            * "The new software is designed to help users organize their thoughts and write more **coherently**."

**Synonyms**: Logically, clearly, consistently, rationally, lucidly.

**Opposite words**: Incoherently, illogically, chaotically, confusedly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *cohaerere* (to stick together).



.. _recession:

================================================================================
Recession
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈsɛʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A period of temporary economic decline.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "recession" is a **period of general economic decline** characterized by a decrease in economic activity, trade, and employment.

**What it really means**: A "**recession**" is a period of time when the economy of a country is getting worse. This usually involves a decrease in business activity, a rise in unemployment, and a general feeling of financial uncertainty. It's a natural part of the economic cycle, but a very difficult one.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a period of economic decline.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a deep **recession**," "a global **recession**," "to fall into a **recession**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We are worried about the economy going into a **recession**."
            * "Many people lost their jobs during the last **recession**."
            * "The government is taking steps to prevent a **recession**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report predicts that the country will enter a **recession** in the next two quarters if current trends continue."
            * "The study examines the social impact of the 2008 global **recession** on unemployment rates and housing prices."
            * "The government's response to the **recession** included a stimulus package to boost consumer spending."
            * "During a **recession**, businesses typically cut back on investment and hiring to reduce costs."

**Synonyms**: Downturn, slump, depression, decline, stagnation.

**Opposite words**: Boom, expansion, growth, prosperity, recovery.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *recessus* (a going back).



.. _attribute:

================================================================================
Attribute
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈætrɪbjuːt/` (Noun), :code:`/əˈtrɪbjuːt/` (Verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A quality or characteristic; (Verb) To regard something as being caused by a particular person or thing.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **characteristic quality or feature** of a person or thing. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **explain something by pointing to its cause**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, an "**attribute**" is a quality or characteristic of a person or thing ("one of her best **attributes** is her kindness"). As a **verb**, to "**attribute**" something to someone or something else means to say that they are the cause of it ("we **attribute** the success to the hard work of the team").

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a quality, or the verb to explain a cause.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a key **attribute**," "personal **attributes**."
        * **(Verb)** "**attribute** something to," "to be **attributed** to."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has all the **attributes** of a good leader."
            * "I **attribute** my success to a lot of hard work."
            * "The failure of the project was **attributed** to a lack of communication."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report identifies several key **attributes** that are essential for success in the field of engineering."
            * "The study concludes that the decline in the bird population can be **attributed** to changes in the local environment."
            * "The document highlights the importance of honesty and integrity as core **attributes** of a public official."
            * "The economic recovery was widely **attributed** to the government's timely and decisive policy interventions."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Quality, trait, feature, characteristic; (Verb) Ascribe, assign, credit, impute.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Discredit, disavow, dissociate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *attribuere* (to assign).



.. _consume:

================================================================================
Consume
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈsjuːm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To eat, drink, or use up something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "consume" is to **use something up, often completely**, whether it be food, resources, or energy.

**What it really means**: To "**consume**" means to use something up. This can be food ("to **consume** a meal"), resources ("to **consume** a lot of electricity"), or goods ("to **consume** products"). The word suggests an act of using or taking something into oneself or a system.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of eating, drinking, or using something up.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**consume** a product," "**consume** energy," "**consume** a lot of time."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We **consume** a lot of fresh vegetables in our home."
            * "The old car **consumes** a lot of fuel."
            * "The project will **consume** all of my time this week."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report shows that households **consume** a significant amount of electricity for heating and cooling."
            * "The study found that the average person **consumes** more processed food today than in the past."
            * "The document outlines the need for policies that encourage people to **consume** goods and services in a more sustainable way."
            * "Modern factories are designed to **consume** less energy and produce less waste than older models."

**Synonyms**: Use up, utilize, eat, drink, devour, absorb.

**Opposite words**: Save, conserve, preserve, produce, create.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *consumere* (to take completely).



.. _inevitably:

================================================================================
Inevitably
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈnɛvɪtəbli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is certain to happen; unavoidably.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "inevitably" is that an outcome is **certain to occur due to the circumstances**, implying a sense of fate or logical necessity.

**What it really means**: "**Inevitably**" is an adverb used to describe something that is sure to happen and cannot be avoided. It is often used when a result is a logical or predictable consequence of a situation. For example, if you don't study for a test, you will **inevitably** fail.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is certain to happen and cannot be prevented.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**inevitably** lead to," "**inevitably** result in," "**inevitably** happen."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "If you stay out in the sun without protection, you'll **inevitably** get sunburned."
            * "The constant rain will **inevitably** lead to flooding."
            * "The project was so behind schedule that it was **inevitably** going to fail."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the current economic policies will **inevitably** lead to a greater disparity between the rich and the poor."
            * "To ignore the warnings about climate change will **inevitably** result in severe consequences for future generations."
            * "The document states that the company's expansion into new markets will **inevitably** create new jobs."
            * "The failure of the first attempt was **inevitably** followed by a more carefully planned second effort."

**Synonyms**: Unavoidably, certainly, surely, predictably, bound to happen.

**Opposite words**: Avoidably, preventably, possibly, uncertainly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *inevitabilis* (unavoidable).



.. _resistance:

================================================================================
Resistance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈzɪstəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of opposing or withstanding something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "resistance" is the **force or action that opposes or hinders** another force, movement, or idea.

**What it really means**: "**Resistance**" is a noun that refers to the act of opposing something or the power to withstand something. It can be a physical force, such as the air **resistance** that slows down a moving car, or a social or political opposition, such as the **resistance** of a population to an oppressive government.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of opposing or withstanding something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "offer **resistance**," "strong **resistance**," "political **resistance**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I met with a lot of **resistance** from my parents about my career choice."
            * "The car is designed to have very little air **resistance** to make it more fuel-efficient."
            * "The medication helps to build your body's **resistance** to the virus."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights the strong **resistance** from local communities to the new construction project."
            * "The study examines the increasing **resistance** of certain bacteria to common antibiotics."
            * "The document outlines the history of political **resistance** to colonial rule in the region."
            * "The new law met with considerable **resistance** from civil liberty groups."

**Synonyms**: Opposition, defiance, stand, struggle, opposition.

**Opposite words**: Acceptance, compliance, submission, cooperation, obedience.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *resister*, from Latin *resistere* (to stand back, to oppose).



.. _approach:

================================================================================
Approach
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈprəʊtʃ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To come near or nearer to something; (Noun) A way of dealing with a situation.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **move closer to something**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **method or strategy used to deal with something**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**approach**" means to come closer to a person, place, or thing. As a **noun**, an "**approach**" is a way of dealing with a problem or a way of thinking about something. For example, a scientific **approach** is a method of solving problems based on scientific principles.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe coming closer, or the noun to refer to a method.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**approach** a topic," "**approach** a deadline."
        * **(Noun)** "a different **approach**," "a scientific **approach**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "As we **approach** the city, the traffic gets worse."
            * "I think we need a new **approach** to solving this problem."
            * "The deadline for the project is **approaching** quickly."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report outlines a new **approach** to urban planning that prioritizes green spaces."
            * "The study requires researchers to **approach** the data with a high degree of objectivity and care."
            * "The new educational program takes a hands-on **approach** to teaching science."
            * "The document states that the company must **approach** its expansion plans with caution to avoid financial risk."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Come near, advance, move toward; (Noun) Method, strategy, manner, way.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Recede, retreat, depart, leave; (Noun) N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *approchier* (to draw near).



.. _raised:

================================================================================
Raised
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/reɪzd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (past tense/past participle), *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) Lifted or brought to a higher position; (Adj) Elevated or lifted.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "raised" is to be **moved to a higher level**, whether physically, in a social context (as in "raised a child"), or in an abstract sense (as in "raised a question").

**What it really means**: "**Raised**" is the past tense of the verb "to raise." It means to have lifted something up ("he **raised** his hand") or to have increased something ("the company **raised** the prices"). As an adjective, it means elevated above the surrounding area ("a **raised** platform"). It can also refer to the process of bringing up a child.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of lifting or increasing something, or as an adjective for something that is elevated.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**raised** a question," "**raised** prices," "**raised** a child."
        * **(Adjective)** "a **raised** platform," "**raised** eyebrows."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **raised** his hand to ask a question."
            * "My parents **raised** me to be honest and kind."
            * "The company **raised** the price of coffee by 10%."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights several key issues that were **raised** by the committee during the meeting."
            * "The study found that children who were **raised** in a supportive environment tend to perform better academically."
            * "The document outlines the new policy, which has **raised** concerns among environmental groups."
            * "The government's new initiative is intended to improve the standard of living for all citizens and has **raised** hopes among the poor."

**Synonyms**: Lifted, elevated, increased, brought up, enhanced.

**Opposite words**: Lowered, dropped, decreased, reduced, diminished.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *ræran* (to raise).



.. _memory:

================================================================================
Memory
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɛməri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The faculty of the mind by which information is encoded, stored, and retrieved.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "memory" is the **mental capacity to recall past events and information**, as well as the specific recollections themselves.

**What it really means**: "**Memory**" is a noun that refers to the ability to remember things from the past. It can also refer to a specific recollection ("I have a fond **memory** of my childhood"). In computing, it refers to the part of a computer that stores data ("the computer's **memory** is full").

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the ability to remember or a specific recollection.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "have a good **memory**," "a fond **memory**," "short-term **memory**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a terrible **memory** for names."
            * "Visiting my old school brought back a lot of good **memories**."
            * "This computer has enough **memory** to run all the programs I need."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the effects of aging on a person's short-term and long-term **memory**."
            * "The study's findings suggest that regular exercise can improve cognitive functions, including **memory**."
            * "The document serves as a way of preserving the **memory** of a historical event for future generations."
            * "The new software is designed to optimize a computer's **memory** usage for better performance."

**Synonyms**: Recall, remembrance, recollection, retention.

**Opposite words**: Forgetfulness, amnesia, oblivion.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *memoria* (mindful, remembering).



.. _appeal:

================================================================================
Appeal
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈpiːl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To make a serious or urgent request; (Noun) A serious or urgent request.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **make an earnest plea**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **strong request for help or a quality that makes something attractive**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**appeal**" means to make a formal or serious request, often for help ("to **appeal** for calm"). As a **noun**, an "**appeal**" is such a request ("a public **appeal** for donations"). It can also refer to the quality of being attractive or interesting ("the movie has a wide **appeal**").

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe making a serious request, and the noun to refer to such a request or a quality of attractiveness.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**appeal** for help," "**appeal** to authority."
        * **(Noun)** "public **appeal**," "mass **appeal**," "sex **appeal**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **appeal** to you to help me with this problem."
            * "The charity launched a new **appeal** to raise money for the victims."
            * "The simple design of the phone has a lot of **appeal** for many users."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes with a powerful **appeal** to the international community for a unified response to the crisis."
            * "The study examines the factors that contribute to the broad **appeal** of social media among different age groups."
            * "The lawyer's final **appeal** to the court was based on new evidence that had not been previously considered."
            * "The document states that the company plans to **appeal** the judge's decision to a higher court."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Plead, beg, request, petition; (Noun) Plea, petition, request, charm.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Reject, deny, refuse; (Noun) Rejection, repulsion.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *appellare* (to address, to call upon).



.. _suspension:

================================================================================
Suspension
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈspɛnʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of stopping or delaying something for a period of time.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "suspension" is the **temporary stopping, removal, or hanging of something**, often as a penalty or to hold something in a position.

**What it really means**: "**Suspension**" is a noun that refers to a temporary stop or delay of something. This can be the **suspension** of a student from school as a punishment, the **suspension** of a project due to a lack of funds, or the **suspension** of a car's wheels from the chassis. The word implies a temporary halt rather than a permanent end.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a temporary stopping or a temporary removal from a role.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a temporary **suspension**," "a school **suspension**," "the **suspension** of services."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was given a week-long **suspension** from the football team."
            * "The **suspension** of the train service caused a lot of problems for commuters."
            * "The car's **suspension** system is designed to provide a smooth ride."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report recommends the temporary **suspension** of all flights to and from the region to prevent the spread of the virus."
            * "The study examines the effects of a school **suspension** on a student's long-term academic performance."
            * "The document outlines the legal grounds for the **suspension** of a company's business license."
            * "The city council voted for the **suspension** of the new construction project pending further environmental review."

**Synonyms**: Postponement, delay, interruption, halt, pause.

**Opposite words**: Continuation, resumption, permanence, commencement.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *suspensio* (a hanging up).



.. _implicitly:

================================================================================
Implicitly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪmˈplɪsɪtli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is not directly stated but is understood.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "implicitly" is to do something in a way that is **understood or suggested without being stated explicitly**, relying on context or an unwritten agreement.

**What it really means**: "**Implicitly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is understood or suggested without being directly said. It is the opposite of "explicitly." For example, if a manager trusts an employee, they **implicitly** give them the freedom to make decisions without asking for permission every time.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is understood without being directly stated.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**implicitly** understand," "**implicitly** agree," "**implicitly** assume."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "When he agreed to help, he **implicitly** promised he would finish the task."
            * "Their friendship was based on an **implicitly** understood code of loyalty."
            * "She **implicitly** knew that she wasn't allowed to talk about the secret."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the government's current policies **implicitly** favor large corporations over small businesses."
            * "The study's findings **implicitly** suggest a correlation between diet and health, even though it is not explicitly stated."
            * "The document states that the two parties have a contract based on a set of **implicitly** agreed-upon terms."
            * "The artist's work **implicitly** critiques the social norms of the era in which he lived."

**Synonyms**: Tacitly, indirectly, unspokenly, unstatedly, by implication.

**Opposite words**: Explicitly, directly, openly, overtly, clearly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *implicitus* (entangled, involved).



.. _appropriate:

================================================================================
Appropriate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈprəʊpriət/` (Adj) :code:`/əˈprəʊpriˌeɪt/` (Verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Suitable or proper in the circumstances; (Verb) To take something for one's own use, typically without the owner's permission.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **fitting or suitable** for a specific situation. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **take something for a particular use**, often in an unauthorized manner.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**appropriate**" means suitable, correct, or proper for a particular situation ("**appropriate** clothing for the event"). As a **verb**, to "**appropriate**" means to take something for yourself without permission ("to **appropriate** public funds"). The verb has a negative connotation, suggesting theft or misuse.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe something suitable, or the verb to describe taking something for your own use.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**appropriate** for," "socially **appropriate**," "it's not **appropriate**."
        * **(Verb)** "**appropriate** funds," "**appropriate** resources."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Make sure you wear **appropriate** clothing for the job interview."
            * "That's not an **appropriate** thing to say in front of children."
            * "The government plans to **appropriate** land for the new highway."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes that the company's response to the crisis was both timely and **appropriate**."
            * "The study examines the social cues that determine what constitutes **appropriate** behavior in different cultural contexts."
            * "The document outlines the legal grounds for the government to **appropriate** private property for public use."
            * "The new regulations were put in place to ensure that all financial resources are used in the most **appropriate** way."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Suitable, proper, fitting, apt; (Verb) Seize, take, commandeer, steal.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Inappropriate, unsuitable, improper; (Verb) Return, give back.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *appropriare* (to make one's own).



.. _selfishly:

================================================================================
Selfishly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɛlfɪʃli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that shows concern only for oneself and not others.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "selfishly" is to act **without consideration for the needs or feelings of others**, prioritizing one's own desires or benefits above all else.

**What it really means**: "**Selfishly**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done for one's own benefit, with no thought for other people. It suggests a lack of empathy or a disregard for others. For example, if you eat the last piece of cake without offering it to anyone else, you are acting **selfishly**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe an action that is done out of concern only for oneself.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "act **selfishly**," "behave **selfishly**," "think **selfishly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **selfishly** took the last slice of pizza without asking anyone else."
            * "Don't act so **selfishly**; you need to think about others."
            * "The child **selfishly** refused to share her toys with her friends."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the company **selfishly** pursued profits at the expense of environmental safety."
            * "The study suggests that people who act **selfishly** often have a lower sense of empathy and social responsibility."
            * "The document highlights the negative consequences that arise when politicians behave **selfishly** rather than serving the public good."
            * "The new law was designed to prevent individuals from **selfishly** hoarding essential resources during a crisis."

**Synonyms**: Egotistically, greedily, inconsiderately, self-centeredly.

**Opposite words**: Selflessly, generously, altruistically, thoughtfully, unselfishly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *self* (one's own) + *-ish* (suffix meaning 'of the nature of').



.. _task:

================================================================================
Task
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/tɑːsk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A piece of work to be done.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "task" is a **specific piece of work that needs to be completed**, often as part of a larger project or duty.

**What it really means**: A "**task**" is a piece of work that needs to be done. It can be a simple household chore ("a daily **task**") or a complex professional assignment ("a challenging **task**"). It often implies a duty or an assigned piece of work that is part of a larger whole.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a piece of work that needs to be completed.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a difficult **task**," "complete a **task**," "a challenging **task**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My main **task** for today is to clean the whole house."
            * "I gave the children a simple **task** to keep them busy."
            * "The project requires us to complete several difficult **tasks** before the deadline."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report outlines the key **tasks** that must be completed by the team to meet the project's objectives."
            * "The study examines how different management styles affect an employee's ability to complete a **task** efficiently."
            * "The document highlights the **task** of ensuring that all new employees receive the necessary training."
            * "The new software is designed to automate a number of routine **tasks** and free up employee time for more complex work."

**Synonyms**: Duty, assignment, chore, job, mission, undertaking.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *tasche* (a tax, an assessment).



.. _available:

================================================================================
Available
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈveɪləbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be used or obtained; at hand.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "available" is the **quality of being accessible, present, or ready for use**, and not being in use or out of reach.

**What it really means**: "**Available**" is an adjective that describes something that is ready to be used or can be obtained. This can be a person who is free to talk ("I'm **available** to meet with you at 3 p.m."), a product that can be purchased ("the product is not **available** in stores"), or a resource that is accessible ("the information is **available** online").

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is ready for use, or a person who is free.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**available** for," "**available** to," "freely **available**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I'm **available** to help you with your homework after dinner."
            * "This book is **available** at the library, so you don't need to buy it."
            * "The doctor is not **available** right now; can you leave a message?"
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that a wide range of educational resources are **available** to students through the university's online portal."
            * "The study examines the extent to which public services are **available** to residents in remote rural areas."
            * "The document highlights the importance of making reliable data **available** to all researchers."
            * "The new vaccine will be made **available** to the public in the next few weeks following its approval."

**Synonyms**: Accessible, obtainable, ready, at hand, on hand, free.

**Opposite words**: Unavailable, unobtainable, inaccessible, occupied.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *availer* (to be of use).



.. _spiritual:

================================================================================
Spiritual
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈspɪrɪtʃuəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Relating to the human spirit or soul, as opposed to physical or material things.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "spiritual" is to be **concerned with the non-physical, inner part of a person**, often involving a sense of connection to something greater than oneself.

**What it really means**: "**Spiritual**" is an adjective used to describe things related to the human spirit or soul, rather than to the physical body or material possessions. It can refer to religion ("a **spiritual** journey"), personal beliefs, or a connection to something deeper and more meaningful than everyday life.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something related to the human spirit, soul, or religion.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**spiritual** beliefs," "**spiritual** journey," "**spiritual** health."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I find that spending time in nature is a very **spiritual** experience for me."
            * "He is a very religious person and has strong **spiritual** beliefs."
            * "Yoga helps me improve my physical and **spiritual** well-being."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the role of **spiritual** practices in promoting mental health and resilience."
            * "The study's findings suggest that a person's **spiritual** beliefs can have a significant impact on their ability to cope with illness."
            * "The document highlights the importance of protecting the **spiritual** and cultural heritage of indigenous communities."
            * "The new museum is designed to provide visitors with a sense of **spiritual** and emotional connection to the art."

**Synonyms**: Religious, inner, soulful, non-material, ethereal.

**Opposite words**: Physical, material, worldly, corporeal, secular.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *spiritualis* (of the breath or spirit).



.. _cautionary:

================================================================================
Cautionary
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɔːʃənəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Serving as a warning.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "cautionary" is to **provide a warning or to serve as an example** to prevent a similar negative outcome in the future.

**What it really means**: "**Cautionary**" is an adjective used to describe something that serves as a warning. For example, a **cautionary** tale is a story told to warn people about a particular danger. It suggests that there is a lesson to be learned from a negative experience to avoid repeating it.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that serves as a warning.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **cautionary** tale," "a **cautionary** note," "a **cautionary** warning."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The story of the man who lost all his money is a **cautionary** tale about gambling."
            * "The sudden rise in prices is a **cautionary** sign for the economy."
            * "The movie is a **cautionary** story about the dangers of technology."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report serves as a **cautionary** reminder of the potential risks of investing in unstable foreign markets."
            * "The study's findings are presented as a **cautionary** note to policymakers about the unintended consequences of the new legislation."
            * "The document outlines the history of a corporate scandal as a **cautionary** case study for business ethics students."
            * "The recent flood is a **cautionary** example of the effects of global warming on extreme weather events."

**Synonyms**: Warning, admonitory, exemplary, monitory, forewarning.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *cautio* (a taking care, a warning).


.. _narrow:

================================================================================
Narrow
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈnærəʊ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Of small width; not wide; (Verb) To become smaller in width.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "narrow" is to have a **limited size or scope**, especially in terms of width or a restricted range of options.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**narrow**" describes something that has a small width, such as a **narrow** street or a **narrow** path. It can also refer to a limited range of choices or perspectives ("a **narrow** point of view"). As a **verb**, to "**narrow**" means to become smaller in width or to reduce a range of possibilities ("to **narrow** down the list").

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe something with a small width or a limited range, and the verb to describe the action of reducing in width or scope.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **narrow** street," "a **narrow** escape," "a **narrow** focus."
        * **(Verb)** "**narrow** down a list," "**narrow** the gap."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The bridge is too **narrow** for two cars to pass at the same time."
            * "We need to **narrow** down the list of candidates to a few top choices."
            * "He had a **narrow** escape when the car almost hit him."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights the challenges of navigating the **narrow** alleyways of the old city."
            * "The study's findings are based on a **narrow** selection of data, which may not be representative of the wider population."
            * "The document outlines how the company plans to **narrow** the gap between its production costs and market prices."
            * "The new policy has a **narrow** scope, focusing exclusively on a single demographic."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Thin, restricted, confined, limited; (Verb) Constrict, reduce, limit.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Wide, broad, expansive, extensive; (Verb) Widen, broaden, expand.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *nearu* (confined, small).



.. _transmit:

================================================================================
Transmit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/trænzˈmɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To cause something to pass from one person or place to another.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "transmit" is to **send, pass on, or convey something from a source to a receiver**, often through a medium or over a distance.

**What it really means**: To "**transmit**" means to send something from one place to another. This can be information via a radio signal ("to **transmit** a message"), a disease from one person to another ("to **transmit** a virus"), or a force from one part of a machine to another ("to **transmit** power").

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of sending or passing something from one place to another.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**transmit** a signal," "**transmit** a disease," "**transmit** information."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The radio station **transmits** its signal all over the country."
            * "Doctors are trying to understand how the disease is **transmitted**."
            * "The car's gearbox **transmits** power from the engine to the wheels."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the various methods used to **transmit** data securely over the internet."
            * "The study highlights the importance of public health campaigns to prevent the **transmission** of infectious diseases."
            * "The document outlines the new system designed to **transmit** information from the satellite to the control center."
            * "The cultural traditions and stories were **transmitted** orally from one generation to the next."

**Synonyms**: Send, convey, communicate, pass on, transfer, broadcast.

**Opposite words**: Receive, get, acquire.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *transmittere* (to send across).



.. _peculiar:

================================================================================
Peculiar
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pɪˈkjuːliə/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Strange, unusual, or odd.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "peculiar" is to be **distinctively strange, unusual, or specific to one person, thing, or place**, standing out from the normal.

**What it really means**: "**Peculiar**" is an adjective that describes something as being strange, unusual, or odd. It can also mean that something is specific to one person or thing ("a **peculiar** smell that is unique to this house"). The word suggests a certain oddness that makes something noteworthy or different from what is expected.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is strange, unusual, or specific to one thing.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **peculiar** smell," "a **peculiar** habit," "the **peculiar** character of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There's a **peculiar** smell coming from the kitchen."
            * "He has a **peculiar** habit of humming to himself when he's thinking."
            * "The painting has a **peculiar** charm that is hard to explain."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes the **peculiar** migratory patterns of this species of bird."
            * "The study examines the **peculiar** linguistic features of the dialect spoken in the region."
            * "The document outlines the **peculiar** legal status of the territory, which is a key point of international dispute."
            * "The artist's work is notable for its **peculiar** use of color and unconventional themes."

**Synonyms**: Strange, odd, unusual, eccentric, bizarre, distinct, specific.

**Opposite words**: Normal, common, ordinary, typical, usual, standard.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *peculiaris* (of one's own property).



.. _substantially:

================================================================================
Substantially
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səbˈstænʃəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a great extent; considerably.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "substantially" is to a degree that is **significant, important, or considerable**, affecting the fundamental nature or size of something.

**What it really means**: "**Substantially**" is an adverb used to describe something that is large in amount, degree, or importance. It is often used to show a significant change or difference. For example, if a company's profits increase **substantially**, it means they have increased by a large and noteworthy amount.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a significant or considerable amount, degree, or change.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**substantially** different," "**substantially** increase," "**substantially** reduce."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The price of the house has increased **substantially** since we bought it."
            * "This new engine is **substantially** more powerful than the old one."
            * "The new policy **substantially** reduced the amount of waste we produce."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes that the new technology will **substantially** improve the efficiency of the manufacturing process."
            * "The study found that the results were **substantially** different from the findings of previous research."
            * "The document highlights how the company's financial situation has improved **substantially** in the last quarter."
            * "The new law will **substantially** alter the way that the government regulates the banking industry."

**Synonyms**: Considerably, significantly, greatly, largely, much.

**Opposite words**: Slightly, insignificantly, barely, negligibly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *substantialis* (of or belonging to substance).



.. _rebellion:

================================================================================
Rebellion
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈbɛliən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An act of open, organized, and armed resistance to an established government or ruler.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "rebellion" is the **open, active, and often armed opposition to a person or group in authority**, especially a government.

**What it really means**: "**Rebellion**" is a noun that refers to an act of opposing an authority, such as a government or a leader. It suggests a widespread, organized resistance, often involving violence. It can also refer to a less serious act of defiance against a norm or a parent's rules.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an act of open opposition to an authority.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a peasant **rebellion**," "student **rebellion**," "an act of **rebellion**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The movie is about a student **rebellion** against the strict school principal."
            * "The teenager's dyed hair was a small act of **rebellion** against his parents."
            * "The country has a long history of popular **rebellion** against foreign rulers."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the social and economic factors that led to the **rebellion** in the 17th century."
            * "The study suggests that a lack of political freedom can often lead to widespread popular **rebellion**."
            * "The document highlights the historical significance of the **rebellion** in shaping the country's national identity."
            * "The new law was passed to prevent any kind of **rebellion** or organized dissent from taking place."

**Synonyms**: Uprising, revolt, revolution, mutiny, insurgency, insurrection.

**Opposite words**: Obedience, submission, compliance, loyalty.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *rebellio* (a renewal of war).



.. _elaborate:

================================================================================
Elaborate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈlæbərət/` (Adj) :code:`/ɪˈlæbəreɪt/` (Verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Detailed and complicated in design and planning; (Verb) To develop or present an idea in further detail.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **highly detailed and complex**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **add more detail or explanation** to an idea or plan.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**elaborate**" describes something that is very detailed, complex, and intricate ("an **elaborate** plan"). As a **verb**, to "**elaborate**" means to give more detail or information about something ("can you **elaborate** on that point?").

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe something with a lot of detail, and the verb to ask for or provide more detail.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **elaborate** plan," "an **elaborate** design."
        * **(Verb)** "**elaborate** on," "**elaborate** further."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She wore a very **elaborate** dress to the wedding."
            * "The instructions are too complicated; can you **elaborate** on the second step?"
            * "The criminal had an **elaborate** plan to rob the bank."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report provides an **elaborate** analysis of the economic data from the last decade."
            * "The study's methodology is **elaborate** and involves multiple stages of data collection and analysis."
            * "The document outlines a new strategy and asks managers to **elaborate** on how they will implement it."
            * "The **elaborate** design of the building is a clear example of neoclassical architecture."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Intricate, complex, detailed, sophisticated; (Verb) Expand, detail, clarify, explain.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Simple, plain, basic, straightforward; (Verb) Simplify, shorten.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *elaborare* (to work out, to produce).



.. _conformity:

================================================================================
Conformity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈfɔːmɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of following rules or standards; behavior that is the same as the accepted norm.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "conformity" is the **behavior or action that aligns with accepted rules, norms, or expectations**, often to fit in with a group.

**What it really means**: "**Conformity**" is a noun that refers to the act of behaving in a way that is similar to other people, to follow a rule, or to fit in with a group. It suggests a lack of individuality in order to adhere to a norm. For example, a student may wear a school uniform in **conformity** with the school's rules.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of following a rule or a norm.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "social **conformity**," "in **conformity** with," "a pressure to **conformity**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He changed his style to be in **conformity** with the rest of his friends."
            * "The company expects a certain degree of **conformity** from its employees."
            * "There is a lot of pressure for **conformity** in high school."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the sociological phenomenon of group **conformity** and its effects on individual decision-making."
            * "The study found that a strong desire for **conformity** can stifle creativity and innovation in the workplace."
            * "The document outlines the need for all new products to be in strict **conformity** with international safety standards."
            * "The pressure to social **conformity** is a major theme in many literary works of the 20th century."

**Synonyms**: Compliance, obedience, adherence, agreement, consistency.

**Opposite words**: Nonconformity, rebellion, defiance, individuality, dissent.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *conformare* (to shape).



.. _functions:

================================================================================
Functions
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfʌŋkʃənz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (plural), *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) The special purpose or role of a person or thing; (Verb) To work or operate.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is the **specific purpose, duty, or task** of something. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **operate or perform its purpose**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**functions**" refers to the purpose or role of something ("the **functions** of a phone"). As a **verb**, to "**function**" means to work or operate as it is supposed to ("the machine is not **functioning** correctly").

**When to use it**: Use the plural noun to refer to the purpose or role of something, or the verb to describe its operation.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **functions** of a device," "the body's **functions**."
        * **(Verb)** "**function** properly," "**function** as a team."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My phone has many different **functions**, like a calculator and a camera."
            * "The new printer isn't **functioning** properly; it keeps getting stuck."
            * "My body's **functions** are returning to normal after the illness."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the main **functions** of the new software and its various applications."
            * "The study found that a lack of sleep can impair cognitive **functions** and lead to poor performance."
            * "The document outlines the legal **functions** and responsibilities of the new government agency."
            * "The new engine is designed to **function** in a wide range of temperatures and climates."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Roles, duties, purposes, operations; (Verb) Work, operate, perform, run.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Malfunction, fail.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *functio* (a performance).



.. _prevent:

================================================================================
Prevent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈvɛnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To stop something from happening or from being done.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "prevent" is to **stop or hinder an action or event from occurring**, often by taking a prior step to block it.

**What it really means**: To "**prevent**" means to stop something from happening. This can be a person who **prevents** a crime, a policy that **prevents** a problem, or a medicine that **prevents** an illness. It implies an action taken to avoid a negative outcome.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of stopping something from happening.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**prevent** a problem," "**prevent** an accident," "**prevent** something from happening."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We need to install a security system to **prevent** theft."
            * "The new traffic light will help to **prevent** accidents at this intersection."
            * "I put a lock on the door to **prevent** the dog from getting out."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report outlines a number of measures that the government can take to **prevent** future economic crises."
            * "The study examines the effectiveness of public health campaigns in **preventing** the spread of infectious diseases."
            * "The document highlights the importance of regular maintenance to **prevent** the machine from breaking down."
            * "The new law is designed to **prevent** companies from engaging in unfair business practices."

**Synonyms**: Stop, hinder, impede, avert, block.

**Opposite words**: Allow, permit, enable, facilitate, encourage.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praevenire* (to come before, to anticipate).



.. _suspend:

================================================================================
Suspend
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈspɛnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To officially stop or delay something for a time.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "suspend" is to **temporarily stop or hang something**, often as a penalty or to hold something in a position.

**What it really means**: To "**suspend**" means to temporarily stop or delay something. This can be a person who is **suspended** from their job as a punishment, a project that is **suspended** due to a lack of funds, or a meeting that is **suspended** for a break. It can also mean to hang something from above.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of temporarily stopping something or hanging something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**suspend** a student," "**suspend** a decision," "**suspend** a meeting."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was **suspended** from school for fighting."
            * "The judge decided to **suspend** the sentence until next month."
            * "The construction of the building was **suspended** due to a lack of materials."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report recommends that the city council **suspend** the new law pending a full review of its environmental impact."
            * "The study's findings led the company to **suspend** production of the product until a safety issue could be resolved."
            * "The document outlines the legal grounds for the government to **suspend** trade with a foreign country."
            * "The committee voted to **suspend** the discussion until more data was made available."

**Synonyms**: Halt, postpone, delay, interrupt, defer.

**Opposite words**: Continue, resume, proceed, start.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *suspendere* (to hang up).



.. _delete:

================================================================================
Delete
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈliːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To remove or erase something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "delete" is to **remove, erase, or cancel something** from existence, typically in a written or digital context.

**What it really means**: To "**delete**" means to remove or erase something, usually from a document or a computer file. It implies a permanent removal, though in some cases, the information can be recovered. It is a very common word in the digital age.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of removing or erasing something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**delete** a file," "**delete** a message," "**delete** a user account."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I accidentally **deleted** the important email."
            * "Can you **delete** that picture from my phone?"
            * "I need to **delete** all the old files to free up some space on my computer."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report recommends that all sensitive data be permanently **deleted** from the server after a certain period of time."
            * "The new privacy policy gives users the right to request that their personal information be **deleted**."
            * "The document outlines the legal penalties for a company that fails to **delete** a user's data when requested."
            * "The new software includes a feature that allows users to easily **delete** all temporary files."

**Synonyms**: Erase, remove, wipe out, cancel, expunge.

**Opposite words**: Add, save, restore, insert.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deletus* (destroyed, erased).



.. _openly:

================================================================================
Openly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈəʊpənli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Without hiding anything; in a way that is not secret.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "openly" is to do something **without secrecy or concealment**, in a way that is honest, transparent, and public.

**What it really means**: "**Openly**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done in a public or obvious way, without any secrecy or attempt to hide it. It suggests a sense of honesty, transparency, and sometimes defiance. For example, if you **openly** disagree with a decision, you don't hide your feelings.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without secrecy.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "speak **openly**," "disagree **openly**," "**openly** express."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She **openly** admitted that she had made a mistake."
            * "The two politicians **openly** debated the new law on television."
            * "He **openly** expressed his love for her in front of everyone."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report praises the company for its decision to **openly** share its financial data with the public."
            * "The study examines how social media has allowed people to **openly** express their political views."
            * "The document highlights the importance of a government that can **openly** and transparently address its shortcomings."
            * "The professor **openly** encouraged students to challenge his ideas during the lecture."

**Synonyms**: Publicly, frankly, candidly, honestly, plainly, transparently.

**Opposite words**: Secretly, privately, covertly, slyly, hiddenly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *open* (not closed).



.. _extensively:

================================================================================
Extensively
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈstɛnsɪvli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a great extent; widely.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "extensively" is to do something **over a large area, in great detail, or to a significant degree**, covering a wide range.

**What it really means**: "**Extensively**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done on a large scale, in great detail, or over a wide area. It is used to show a large scope or a deep level of detail. For example, if a project is researched **extensively**, it means a lot of detailed work was done.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done on a large scale or with a lot of detail.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "research **extensively**," "travel **extensively**," "damage **extensively**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has traveled **extensively** throughout Europe and Asia."
            * "The new building was damaged **extensively** in the fire."
            * "The book is about a topic that has been **extensively** researched."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes that the new technology has been tested **extensively** and is safe for public use."
            * "The study is based on data collected from a large sample of participants and was **extensively** analyzed."
            * "The document highlights the importance of protecting the **extensively** diverse ecosystem of the rainforest."
            * "The new law will **extensively** regulate the use of social media platforms."

**Synonyms**: Widely, broadly, greatly, in-depth, thoroughly, comprehensively.

**Opposite words**: Narrowly, slightly, superficially, limitedly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *extensivus* (outspread).



.. _mandatory:

================================================================================
Mandatory
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmændətəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Required by law or rule; compulsory.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "mandatory" is that an action or rule is **required or commanded by an authority**, leaving no room for choice.

**What it really means**: "**Mandatory**" is an adjective used to describe something that is required or compulsory. It suggests that something must be done because of a law, a rule, or an order. For example, it is **mandatory** to wear a helmet when riding a motorcycle in many places.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is required or compulsory.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**mandatory** training," "**mandatory** requirement," "**mandatory** fine."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Wearing a seatbelt is **mandatory** in all cars."
            * "Attendance at the meeting is **mandatory** for all team members."
            * "All employees must complete the **mandatory** training before they can start working."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights the need for **mandatory** recycling programs in all major cities to reduce landfill waste."
            * "The study found that companies with a **mandatory** retirement age often have a lower rate of employee satisfaction."
            * "The document outlines the new **mandatory** requirements for food safety and hygiene in all restaurants."
            * "The government's new law makes it **mandatory** for all citizens to have health insurance."

**Synonyms**: Compulsory, obligatory, required, essential, necessary.

**Opposite words**: Optional, voluntary, non-essential, discretionary.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *mandatum* (a command).



.. _measuring:

================================================================================
Measuring
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɛʒərɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (present participle), *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To find the size, amount, or degree of something; (Noun) The act of taking a measurement.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "measuring" is the **process of determining the size, quantity, or degree of something** by comparing it to a standard unit.

**What it really means**: "**Measuring**" is the present participle of the verb "to measure." It means to find the size, amount, or degree of something using a standard unit. For example, you can be **measuring** the length of a table, **measuring** the temperature of water, or **measuring** a person's height.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of finding the size, amount, or degree of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**measuring** the temperature," "**measuring** progress," "**measuring** success."
        * **(Noun)** "a **measuring** cup," "the act of **measuring**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I'm **measuring** the ingredients for the cake."
            * "The doctor is **measuring** my blood pressure."
            * "The tailor is **measuring** me for a new suit."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report outlines a new method for **measuring** the effectiveness of the public transport system."
            * "The study examines the challenges of **measuring** the social impact of a new government policy."
            * "The document highlights the importance of **measuring** a project's success against its original goals."
            * "The new technology is designed for the precise **measuring** of temperature and humidity in a controlled environment."

**Synonyms**: Quantifying, assessing, gauging, evaluating, appraising.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *mesure*, from Latin *metiri* (to measure).



.. _unconsciously:

================================================================================
Unconsciously
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ʌnˈkɒnʃəsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Without being aware; without conscious thought.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "unconsciously" is to do something **without awareness or deliberate thought**, acting on impulse, habit, or a hidden mental process.

**What it really means**: "**Unconsciously**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done without a person being aware of it. It is the opposite of "consciously." It suggests that an action is an automatic response, a habit, or a reflex, rather than a deliberate decision.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without awareness or conscious thought.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "to do something **unconsciously**," "**unconsciously** believe," "**unconsciously** repeat."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **unconsciously** reached for my phone when I heard the notification sound."
            * "He was **unconsciously** tapping his foot during the whole meeting."
            * "Sometimes, we **unconsciously** repeat the mistakes of our parents."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that consumers are **unconsciously** influenced by the colors and fonts used in advertising."
            * "The study examines how people **unconsciously** process information and form biases without even realizing it."
            * "The document highlights the importance of being aware of the **unconsciously** held beliefs that can affect our decisions."
            * "Many of our daily habits and routines are performed **unconsciously** and are a result of conditioning."

**Synonyms**: Subconsciously, involuntarily, automatically, instinctively, reflexively.

**Opposite words**: Consciously, deliberately, intentionally, knowingly, purposefully.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *in-* (not) + *conscius* (knowing).



.. _successful:

================================================================================
Successful
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səkˈsɛsfəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Having achieved a desired goal or result.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "successful" is the **achievement of a desired outcome or goal**, meeting a standard of success.

**What it really means**: "**Successful**" is an adjective used to describe a person or a thing that has achieved a desired goal or result. It suggests a positive outcome. A person can be **successful** in their career, a project can be **successful**, or an event can be **successful**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a person or a thing that has achieved a desired outcome.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **successful** career," "a **successful** project," "a **successful** outcome."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The surgery was **successful**, and the patient is now recovering."
            * "She had a very **successful** career as a lawyer."
            * "The **successful** launch of the new product was celebrated by the whole team."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the factors that contribute to a **successful** transition from school to the workplace."
            * "The study found that a **successful** leader is often a good communicator and a strong decision-maker."
            * "The document highlights the importance of setting clear goals for a project to be considered **successful**."
            * "The new policy was a **successful** effort to reduce unemployment rates in the region."

**Synonyms**: Thriving, prosperous, victorious, fruitful, effective, accomplished.

**Opposite words**: Unsuccessful, failed, fruitless, ineffective, unsuccessful.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *successus* (a coming up, a coming after).



.. _lately:

================================================================================
Lately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈleɪtli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Recently; in the recent past.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "lately" is to refer to a **period of time that has just passed**, indicating a recent change or event.

**What it really means**: "**Lately**" is an adverb used to describe something that has happened recently. It is often used with the present perfect tense to talk about something that started in the past and continues to be true or relevant in the present. For example, "have you seen any good movies **lately**?"

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that has happened recently.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "have you seen **lately**," "what have you been doing **lately**," "**lately** I've been."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I've been feeling very tired **lately**."
            * "Have you heard from John **lately**? I haven't seen him in a while."
            * "The weather has been very cold **lately**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that consumer spending has increased **lately**, which is a sign of a recovering economy."
            * "The study examines the new trends in social media that have emerged **lately**."
            * "The document highlights the increasing concerns about air pollution that have been **lately** raised by environmental activists."
            * "There have been a number of new policy changes **lately** that have affected the local businesses."

**Synonyms**: Recently, newly, of late, latterly.

**Opposite words**: Formerly, previously, long ago, in the past.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *lat* (slow, tardy).



.. _irreversible:

================================================================================
Irreversible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪrɪˈvɜːsəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not able to be changed back to a previous state.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "irreversible" is to be **impossible to undo or change back to a previous state**, signifying a permanent and final change.

**What it really means**: "**Irreversible**" is an adjective used to describe something that cannot be changed back to its original state. It suggests a permanent and final change. For example, the effects of climate change are often described as **irreversible**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that cannot be changed back.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**irreversible** damage," "**irreversible** change," "**irreversible** decision."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The damage to the old book is **irreversible**."
            * "He made an **irreversible** decision to quit his job without a new one lined up."
            * "The doctor said the injury to his knee was **irreversible**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report warns of the **irreversible** damage that deforestation is causing to the local ecosystem."
            * "The study examines the long-term effects of a particular illness and the **irreversible** changes it causes to the body."
            * "The document highlights the **irreversible** social and cultural changes that have resulted from globalization."
            * "The committee's decision to close the factory had an **irreversible** impact on the local economy."

**Synonyms**: Permanent, final, unchangeable, lasting, irreparable.

**Opposite words**: Reversible, temporary, changeable, fixable, repairable.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *in-* (not) + *revertere* (to turn back).



.. _consequence:

================================================================================
Consequence
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɒnsɪkwəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A result or effect of an action or condition.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "consequence" is the **outcome or result that follows from a previous action or event**, often implying a significant or negative result.

**What it really means**: A "**consequence**" is a result or an effect of something that has happened. It is often used to refer to a negative result ("the **consequences** of his actions"). It suggests a cause-and-effect relationship, where one thing leads to another.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a result or an effect of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **consequences** of," "take the **consequences**," "a negative **consequence**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Failing the exam was a direct **consequence** of not studying."
            * "He will have to face the **consequences** of his actions."
            * "One of the **consequences** of smoking is a high risk of lung cancer."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report analyzes the long-term **consequences** of the new economic policy on the national debt."
            * "The study examines the social **consequences** of a high unemployment rate in a country."
            * "The document highlights the environmental **consequences** of industrial pollution on the local ecosystem."
            * "The committee's decision had a number of unintended **consequences** that no one had predicted."

**Synonyms**: Result, outcome, effect, repercussion, aftermath.

**Opposite words**: Cause, origin, reason, source, antecedent.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *consequi* (to follow closely).



.. _observation:

================================================================================
Observation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɒbzəˈveɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of watching something or someone carefully.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "observation" is the **act of carefully watching or monitoring something**, especially for a scientific or analytical purpose, and the insights gained from that process.

**What it really means**: "**Observation**" is a noun that refers to the act of watching something carefully. It is a key part of scientific research, where a scientist makes **observations** of a phenomenon to understand it better. It can also refer to a comment or a remark that a person makes.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of watching something carefully or a comment that is made.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make an **observation**," "careful **observation**," "under **observation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The scientist made a number of interesting **observations** about the behavior of the animals."
            * "I made the **observation** that he seemed a little sad today."
            * "The police had the suspect under **observation** for a week."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report is based on a year of careful **observation** of the species in its natural habitat."
            * "The study's findings are a result of detailed **observation** of the data and a critical analysis of the results."
            * "The document highlights the importance of a clear and objective **observation** in all scientific research."
            * "One of the main **observations** in the report is that a lack of resources is a major problem."

**Synonyms**: Watching, monitoring, scrutiny, study, remark, comment.

**Opposite words**: Disregard, inattention, neglect.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *observatio* (a watching).



.. _society:

================================================================================
Society
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈsaɪəti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The community of people living in a particular country or region.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "society" is a **large group of people who live together in an organized community**, sharing laws, institutions, and a common culture.

**What it really means**: "**Society**" is a noun that refers to a group of people who live together in an organized community, sharing the same culture, laws, and institutions. It can refer to a whole country ("American **society**") or to a smaller group of people who share a common interest ("a local history **society**").

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an organized group of people.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "modern **society**," "a civilized **society**," "a historical **society**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We have a responsibility to create a fair and just **society** for everyone."
            * "He is a member of the local historical **society**."
            * "The movie is a critique of modern **society** and its values."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the social changes that have occurred in **society** as a result of technological innovation."
            * "The study found that a strong sense of community is essential for a healthy and thriving **society**."
            * "The document highlights the need for laws that protect the rights of all citizens in a democratic **society**."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the challenges facing **society** today, such as poverty and inequality."

**Synonyms**: Community, civilization, populace, public, culture, humanity.

**Opposite words**: Individuality, solitude.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *societas* (a fellowship).



.. _basic:

================================================================================
Basic
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈbeɪsɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Forming the most important or fundamental part of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "basic" is to be the **most fundamental, essential, or foundational part of something**, without which it cannot exist or function.

**What it really means**: "**Basic**" is an adjective used to describe something that is fundamental or essential. It suggests that something is the starting point or the most important part of something else. For example, a **basic** need is a need that must be met for a person to survive.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is fundamental or essential.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **basic** need," "the **basic** rules," "a **basic** understanding."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Everyone should have access to **basic** healthcare."
            * "I have a **basic** understanding of how the computer works."
            * "The **basic** rules of the game are very simple."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights the fact that many people still lack access to **basic** necessities like clean water and electricity."
            * "The study examines the importance of a **basic** education in a child's development."
            * "The document outlines the **basic** principles of the new law, which are designed to protect the environment."
            * "The research is based on a **basic** assumption that all participants will be honest in their responses."

**Synonyms**: Fundamental, essential, primary, simple, foundational, rudimentary.

**Opposite words**: Advanced, complex, sophisticated, elaborate, intricate.

**Where it comes from**: From Late Latin *basica* (a pedestal).



.. _suspicious:

================================================================================
Suspicious
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈspɪʃəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Having or showing a cautious distrust of someone or something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "suspicious" is to **have or show a feeling of distrust or doubt about a person or a situation**, believing that something is wrong or deceitful.

**What it really means**: "**Suspicious**" is an adjective used to describe a feeling of distrust or doubt. You can be **suspicious** of a person's motives, or a situation can seem **suspicious**. It suggests that something seems wrong or out of place, and you feel that you need to be careful.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a feeling of distrust or doubt.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "to be **suspicious** of," "a **suspicious** person," "a **suspicious** package."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I'm **suspicious** of anyone who offers me a free product."
            * "The police found a **suspicious** package outside the building."
            * "He acted in a very **suspicious** way, so I didn't trust him."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the company's financial records contained several **suspicious** transactions."
            * "The study examines how a **suspicious** nature can affect a person's ability to form close relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of being aware of **suspicious** activity in the workplace to prevent fraud."
            * "The committee's decision was met with a **suspicious** response from the public, who believed there was a hidden agenda."

**Synonyms**: Doubtful, distrustful, wary, questionable, dubious.

**Opposite words**: Trusting, credulous, confident, believing, unsuspecting.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *suspiciosus* (full of suspicion).



.. _revolutionise:

================================================================================
Revolutionise
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌrɛvəˈluːʃənaɪz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To change something completely and fundamentally.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "revolutionise" is to **bring about a dramatic and fundamental change** in a way of doing something or thinking about something.

**What it really means**: To "**revolutionise**" means to change something in a major, fundamental, and dramatic way. It suggests a major shift or a complete overhaul. For example, the internet has **revolutionised** the way we communicate.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of changing something completely.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**revolutionise** an industry," "**revolutionise** a process," "**revolutionise** the way."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new technology will **revolutionise** the way we live and work."
            * "The invention of the printing press **revolutionised** the spread of knowledge."
            * "She has a new idea that could **revolutionise** the whole company."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that artificial intelligence will **revolutionise** the healthcare industry in the next decade."
            * "The study examines how the rise of digital platforms has **revolutionised** the media landscape."
            * "The document highlights the company's new product, which is designed to **revolutionise** the way people use their phones."
            * "The new economic policy is intended to **revolutionise** the country's manufacturing sector."

**Synonyms**: Transform, change, innovate, modernize, overhaul.

**Opposite words**: Preserve, maintain, stabilize, conserve.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *revolutio* (a turning around).



.. _incident:

================================================================================
Incident
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɪnsɪdənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An event or occurrence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "incident" is an **occurrence or event, often a minor or unexpected one**, that is part of a larger chain of events.

**What it really means**: An "**incident**" is an event or an occurrence, often a negative or unusual one. It is a more formal word for an event, and it is often used to refer to a small problem or a conflict. For example, a minor car accident could be called a traffic **incident**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an event or occurrence, often a negative one.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a security **incident**," "a minor **incident**," "a diplomatic **incident**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The police are investigating a strange **incident** that happened at the bank."
            * "There was a minor **incident** in the playground, but no one was hurt."
            * "The meeting was interrupted by a small **incident** with the projector."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report details a number of security **incidents** that occurred at the factory in the last year."
            * "The study examines the factors that contribute to the frequency of workplace **incidents** and accidents."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan for responding to a major **incident**."
            * "The recent border skirmish was a serious diplomatic **incident** that required a swift response."

**Synonyms**: Event, occurrence, episode, happening, affair.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *incidere* (to fall upon, to happen).



.. _bizarre:

================================================================================
Bizarre
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/bɪˈzɑː/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Very strange or unusual.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "bizarre" is to be **strikingly unusual, strange, or grotesque**, often in a way that is surprising or shocking.

**What it really means**: "**Bizarre**" is an adjective used to describe something that is very strange or unusual. It is a stronger word than "peculiar" and suggests a very odd or surprising strangeness. For example, a **bizarre** dream is one that is very strange and hard to explain.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is very strange or unusual.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **bizarre** story," "a **bizarre** event," "a **bizarre** coincidence."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He had a **bizarre** dream about a talking cat wearing a hat."
            * "The movie had a **bizarre** and unexpected ending."
            * "The whole situation was so **bizarre** that I didn't know what to think."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report details a number of **bizarre** and unexplained phenomena that have occurred in the region."
            * "The study examines the **bizarre** mating rituals of a newly discovered species of deep-sea fish."
            * "The document highlights the **bizarre** and illogical nature of some of the legal precedents from the 18th century."
            * "The artist is known for his **bizarre** and surreal paintings that challenge traditional norms."

**Synonyms**: Strange, weird, odd, eccentric, grotesque, outlandish.

**Opposite words**: Normal, ordinary, conventional, common, typical.

**Where it comes from**: From French *bizarre* (odd, fantastic).



.. _equally:

================================================================================
Equally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈiːkwəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In the same way or to the same extent.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "equally" is to do something **to the same degree, in the same amount, or in the same manner**, suggesting a state of balance or fairness.

**What it really means**: "**Equally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in the same way or to the same extent. It is used to show a sense of balance or fairness. For example, if two people are treated **equally**, they are treated in the same way without any preference.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in the same way or to the same extent.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**equally** important," "treat **equally**," "share **equally**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We shared the pizza **equally** among all the people at the table."
            * "It's a job that requires a lot of hard work, but it's **equally** rewarding."
            * "The two brothers are **equally** responsible for the mess."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that education and healthcare are **equally** important for a country's development."
            * "The study examines how different cultures place **equally** high value on family and community."
            * "The document highlights the importance of ensuring that all citizens are **equally** protected under the law."
            * "The new policy is designed to **equally** distribute the resources among all the different departments."

**Synonyms**: Alike, in the same way, fairly, justly, identically.

**Opposite words**: Unequally, differently, unfairly, unevenly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *aequalis* (equal).



.. _preciously:

================================================================================
Preciously
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɛʃəsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that shows great care and value.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "preciously" is to do something **with great care and caution**, as if the object or thing is of great value or importance.

**What it really means**: "**Preciously**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done with great care, as if something is very valuable. It suggests that a person is treating something with a lot of love and attention because it is special. For example, you might handle a delicate antique vase **preciously**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with great care and value.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "hold **preciously**," "treat **preciously**," "guard **preciously**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He held the small baby **preciously** in his arms."
            * "The old letters were stored away and guarded **preciously**."
            * "She **preciously** kept the small gift he gave her."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the artifacts were stored **preciously** in a climate-controlled environment to prevent deterioration."
            * "The study examines how people **preciously** hold on to traditions and cultural heritage in a globalized world."
            * "The document highlights the importance of protecting and preserving the **preciously** rare species of animal."
            * "The museum's most valuable painting is displayed and lit **preciously** to ensure no damage."

**Synonyms**: Carefully, delicately, lovingly, dearly, cautiously.

**Opposite words**: Carelessly, roughly, neglectfully, unceremoniously.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *pretiosus* (of great value).



.. _approximately:

================================================================================
Approximately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈprɒksɪmətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Close to the actual amount or time; not exactly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "approximately" is to be **near or close to an exact value or number**, but not precisely so.

**What it really means**: "**Approximately**" is an adverb used to describe something that is close to an exact number or time, but not precise. It is a way of giving an estimate. For example, the distance to the city is **approximately** 10 kilometers.

**When to use it**: Use it to give an estimate that is not exact.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**approximately** 10," "**approximately** the same," "**approximately** 3 p.m."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The journey will take **approximately** three hours."
            * "There were **approximately** 50 people at the party."
            * "The new building is **approximately** the same size as the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report states that the average worker in the factory earns **approximately** 15% more than the national average."
            * "The study found that the population of the city has grown by **approximately** 200,000 in the last decade."
            * "The document outlines the cost of the project as being **approximately** 5 million dollars."
            * "The new machine is designed to produce a product that is **approximately** 10 centimeters in length."

**Synonyms**: Roughly, nearly, about, around, close to.

**Opposite words**: Exactly, precisely, accurately.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *approximare* (to come near).



.. _separation:

================================================================================
Separation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌsɛpəˈreɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action or state of moving or being moved apart.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "separation" is the **act or state of being divided or set apart** from something or someone else.

**What it really means**: "**Separation**" is a noun that refers to the act of moving or being moved apart. This can be the **separation** of two people in a relationship, the **separation** of a family due to a war, or the **separation** of different materials in a factory. It suggests a physical or emotional division.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of moving or being moved apart.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a legal **separation**," "a **separation** of powers," "the **separation** of church and state."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "They have decided to get a legal **separation** before getting a divorce."
            * "The **separation** of the two friends was very difficult for them both."
            * "The factory is designed for the **separation** of different types of plastic."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the social and economic effects of the **separation** of the country into two independent states."
            * "The study highlights the importance of the constitutional **separation** of powers to ensure a balanced government."
            * "The document outlines the historical and political factors that led to the **separation** of the two cultures."
            * "The new policy is designed to ensure the **separation** of public and private funding in the new project."

**Synonyms**: Division, parting, split, segregation, detachment.

**Opposite words**: Union, connection, unity, joining, combination.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *separatio* (a dividing).



.. _significantly:

================================================================================
Significantly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/sɪɡˈnɪfɪkəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a sufficiently great or important way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "significantly" is to a degree that is **important, notable, or meaningful**, having a measurable and impactful effect.

**What it really means**: "**Significantly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a very important or noticeable way. It is used to emphasize the importance or the size of a change. For example, if a company's profits increase **significantly**, it means they have increased by a very large and important amount.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in an important or noticeable way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**significantly** different," "**significantly** increase," "**significantly** affect."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new medication has **significantly** improved his condition."
            * "Our sales have **significantly** increased since we launched our new advertising campaign."
            * "The two brothers are **significantly** different in their personalities."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes that the new technology will **significantly** reduce the amount of time required for the process."
            * "The study found that a person's diet can **significantly** affect their overall health and well-being."
            * "The document highlights the fact that the number of people living in poverty has **significantly** decreased in the last decade."
            * "The new policy is designed to **significantly** alter the way that the government regulates the banking industry."

**Synonyms**: Notably, considerably, greatly, importantly, markedly.

**Opposite words**: Insignificantly, slightly, barely, negligibly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *significare* (to signify).



.. _ideally:

================================================================================
Ideally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/aɪˈdiːəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a perfect or an ideal situation.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "ideally" is to refer to a **perfect or best-case scenario**, representing a desired or optimal situation.

**What it really means**: "**Ideally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is perfect or in an ideal situation. It is used to describe a desired outcome that may not always be possible. For example, **ideally**, we should all eat healthy food and exercise every day, but sometimes that's not possible.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a perfect or ideal situation.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**ideally** you should," "**ideally** we would," "**ideally** the best way."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "**Ideally**, we would go on vacation for a month, but we can only afford a week."
            * "**Ideally**, you should get eight hours of sleep every night."
            * "The house is perfect, **ideally** located near the park and the school."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that **ideally**, all children should have access to a quality education, regardless of their family's income."
            * "The study's findings suggest that **ideally**, a company's success should be measured not just by its profits but also by its social and environmental impact."
            * "The document outlines the new system, which is designed to function **ideally** in a zero-gravity environment."
            * "The new policy is designed to be **ideally** suited for the needs of the working class."

**Synonyms**: Perfectly, optimally, preferably, in a perfect world.

**Opposite words**: Realistically, practically, in reality.

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *idea* (form, pattern).



.. _measure:

================================================================================
Measure
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɛʒər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To find the size, amount, or degree of something; (Noun) A standard unit or a course of action.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **determine the size, amount, or degree of something**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **standard unit of measurement** or a **course of action taken to achieve an end**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**measure**" means to find the size, amount, or degree of something using a standard unit. As a **noun**, a "**measure**" can be a standard unit, such as a meter, or it can be an action taken to achieve a goal ("we need to take strong **measures** to protect the environment").

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe finding the size of something, and the noun to refer to a unit or an action.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**measure** the length," "**measure** the temperature."
        * **(Noun)** "take **measures**," "a unit of **measure**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **measure** the length of the table before I buy a tablecloth."
            * "The doctor took my temperature as a **measure** of my health."
            * "The government is taking new **measures** to reduce crime."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report outlines a new method for **measuring** the effectiveness of a new marketing campaign."
            * "The study examines the new **measures** that were implemented to reduce the amount of pollution in the city."
            * "The document highlights the importance of using a standard **measure** for all data collection to ensure consistency."
            * "The company is taking a number of **measures** to improve its employees' health and well-being."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Gauge, assess, quantify, evaluate; (Noun) Action, step, unit, dimension, standard.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Estimate, guess.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *mesure*, from Latin *metiri* (to measure).



.. _overcome:

================================================================================
Overcome
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌəʊvəˈkʌm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To succeed in dealing with a problem or difficulty.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "overcome" is to **successfully deal with or defeat a challenge, difficulty, or emotion**, emerging as the winner or being stronger as a result.

**What it really means**: To "**overcome**" means to succeed in dealing with a problem or difficulty. It suggests a victory over a challenge, such as **overcoming** an illness, **overcoming** a fear, or **overcoming** a difficult obstacle.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of succeeding in dealing with a problem or difficulty.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**overcome** a fear," "**overcome** an obstacle," "**overcome** a problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He had to **overcome** his fear of public speaking to give his presentation."
            * "The team had to **overcome** a lot of challenges to win the championship."
            * "She was able to **overcome** her illness with the help of a good doctor."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the strategies that people use to **overcome** the challenges of living in a new country."
            * "The study found that a person's resilience can help them to **overcome** adversity and bounce back from setbacks."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan to **overcome** any potential problems that may arise during the project."
            * "The new technology is designed to help companies **overcome** the technical limitations of their old systems."

**Synonyms**: Defeat, conquer, surmount, triumph over, prevail.

**Opposite words**: Fail, surrender, yield, submit, succumb.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *ofercuman* (to come upon, to defeat).



.. _fiercely:

================================================================================
Fiercely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɪəsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a powerful, intense, or aggressive way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "fiercely" is to do something **with great intensity, aggression, or passion**, suggesting a powerful and strong emotion.

**What it really means**: "**Fiercely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done with a lot of energy, power, or aggression. It suggests a very strong or intense feeling, such as a **fiercely** competitive person or a storm that rages **fiercely**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with great intensity or aggression.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "to fight **fiercely**," "**fiercely** competitive," "love **fiercely**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The two teams fought **fiercely** for the championship."
            * "She **fiercely** defended her children from any criticism."
            * "The wind was blowing **fiercely** outside the window."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the two companies are **fiercely** competitive in the global market."
            * "The study examines how a parent's desire to protect their child can lead to them **fiercely** defending their child's actions."
            * "The document highlights the need for a strong and **fiercely** independent judiciary to protect the rule of law."
            * "The new law was **fiercely** debated in the parliament before it was passed."

**Synonyms**: Intensely, violently, aggressively, passionately, powerfully.

**Opposite words**: Gently, calmly, mildly, softly, weakly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *fier* (proud, wild).



.. _admiration:

================================================================================
Admiration
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌædməˈreɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A feeling of respect and wonder.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "admiration" is a **feeling of respect and approval for someone or something**, often inspired by their qualities or achievements.

**What it really means**: "**Admiration**" is a noun that refers to a feeling of respect and wonder for someone or something. It suggests a deep appreciation for a person's qualities, skills, or achievements. For example, you might feel **admiration** for a great artist or a brave soldier.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a feeling of respect and wonder.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "have **admiration** for," "a feeling of **admiration**," "win **admiration**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a lot of **admiration** for her ability to stay calm under pressure."
            * "He won the **admiration** of his colleagues with his hard work and dedication."
            * "The whole country has a deep **admiration** for the Queen's long service."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes with a note of **admiration** for the team's ability to **overcome** such significant challenges."
            * "The study examines how a person's **admiration** for a particular celebrity can influence their consumer choices."
            * "The document highlights the **admiration** that the public has for the work of the national health service."
            * "The new program is designed to inspire a feeling of **admiration** for the country's rich cultural heritage."

**Synonyms**: Respect, esteem, reverence, awe, high regard.

**Opposite words**: Contempt, disdain, scorn, disgust, hatred.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *admiratio* (a wondering at).



.. _profit:

================================================================================
Profit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɒfɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A financial gain; (Verb) To get a financial gain.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is the **financial gain obtained from a business activity**, especially after all expenses have been subtracted. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **obtain a financial or other advantage** from a situation.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**profit**" is the money that a business makes after all of its costs have been paid. As a **verb**, to "**profit**" means to gain something, usually money, from a situation.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a financial gain, and the verb to describe the act of gaining something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make a **profit**," "a net **profit**," "a healthy **profit**."
        * **(Verb)** "**profit** from," "**profit** off of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The company made a small **profit** this year."
            * "He started a new business to **profit** from the growing demand for local goods."
            * "The whole team was able to **profit** from the success of the project."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report analyzes the company's financial records to determine its net **profit** for the last quarter."
            * "The study examines how new businesses can increase their **profit** margins by reducing their operational costs."
            * "The document highlights the importance of a government policy that encourages companies to **profit** in a socially responsible way."
            * "The new law is designed to ensure that the public **profits** from the use of public resources."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Gain, earnings, income, revenue, return; (Verb) Benefit, gain, capitalize.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Loss, deficit, debt; (Verb) Lose.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *proficere* (to advance, to make progress).



.. _launch:

================================================================================
Launch
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/lɔːntʃ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To start or set in motion; (Noun) The act of starting or introducing something new.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **send something off, initiate a process, or introduce something new**. The core meaning of the **noun** is the **beginning or introduction of something**, such as a product or a project.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**launch**" means to start something new, such as a product, a project, or a campaign. It can also mean to send something into the air, such as a rocket. As a **noun**, a "**launch**" is the event when something new is started.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe starting something new, and the noun to refer to the event of starting something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**launch** a product," "**launch** an investigation," "**launch** a boat."
        * **(Noun)** "a product **launch**," "the **launch** of a rocket," "a successful **launch**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The company plans to **launch** a new phone next month."
            * "The **launch** of the new car was a big event."
            * "We need to **launch** a new advertising campaign to increase sales."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report details the successful **launch** of the new satellite into orbit."
            * "The study examines the marketing strategies that are most effective for a new product **launch**."
            * "The document outlines the new project, which is set to **launch** in the third quarter of this year."
            * "The government plans to **launch** a new initiative to promote sustainable energy."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Start, initiate, begin, introduce, embark on; (Noun) Beginning, start, inauguration, initiation.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) End, finish, stop, cancel; (Noun) End, conclusion.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *lanchier* (to throw a lance).



.. _imitation:

================================================================================
Imitation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪmɪˈteɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of copying or reproducing something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "imitation" is the **act of copying, mimicking, or reproducing the behavior, appearance, or style** of another person or thing.

**What it really means**: "**Imitation**" is a noun that refers to the act of copying something. It can be the **imitation** of a person's voice, the **imitation** of an artist's style, or a product that is an **imitation** of a more expensive brand.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of copying something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a good **imitation**," "in **imitation** of," "an act of **imitation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The brand sells an **imitation** leather jacket that looks very real."
            * "His accent is a very good **imitation** of a British person."
            * "The children's artwork was a direct **imitation** of the teacher's."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the economic effects of the widespread **imitation** of brand-name products."
            * "The study found that a person's learning process is often based on the **imitation** of others' behavior."
            * "The document highlights the legal challenges of dealing with the **imitation** of copyrighted material."
            * "The new artwork is a brilliant **imitation** of the old master's style."

**Synonyms**: Copy, replica, reproduction, mimicry, emulation.

**Opposite words**: Original, genuine, authentic, unique.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *imitatio* (a copying).



.. _calm:

================================================================================
Calm
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kɑːm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Not feeling or showing strong emotions; (Noun) A state of peace; (Verb) To make someone peaceful.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "calm" is to be **free from disturbance, agitation, or strong emotion**, possessing a state of tranquility and peace.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**calm**" describes a state of peace, free from strong emotions or agitation ("a **calm** sea"). As a **noun**, it is the state of peace itself ("a sense of **calm**"). As a **verb**, to "**calm**" means to make someone or something peaceful ("to **calm** a crying baby").

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe a peaceful state, the noun to refer to a state of peace, and the verb to describe making someone peaceful.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **calm** person," "a **calm** voice," "stay **calm**."
        * **(Noun)** "a sense of **calm**," "the eye of the **calm**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She has a very **calm** voice, which makes it easy to listen to her."
            * "I like to go to the beach to find a sense of **calm**."
            * "He tried to **calm** the crying child with a lullaby."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that a leader's ability to remain **calm** during a crisis is essential for effective decision-making."
            * "The study examines the effectiveness of mindfulness in promoting a state of **calm** and reducing stress."
            * "The document highlights the importance of providing a **calm** and supportive environment for students with anxiety."
            * "The new regulations were implemented to **calm** the public's fears about the safety of the new product."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Peaceful, tranquil, serene, relaxed; (Noun) Peace, tranquility, serenity; (Verb) Soothe, pacify, relax, settle.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Agitated, chaotic, turbulent, anxious; (Noun) Chaos, turmoil, agitation; (Verb) Agitate, excite, disturb.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *calme*, from Italian *calma* (stillness).



.. _enormously:

================================================================================
Enormously
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈnɔːməsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a very great extent; extremely.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "enormously" is to an **immense or extremely large degree**, far beyond the normal or expected.

**What it really means**: "**Enormously**" is an adverb used to describe something that is very large in amount, degree, or size. It is a very strong way of saying "very" or "extremely." For example, if you are **enormously** happy, you are extremely happy.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is very large in amount, degree, or size.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**enormously** successful," "**enormously** difficult," "**enormously** important."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new project was **enormously** successful, and the company's profits tripled."
            * "I'm **enormously** grateful for all of your help."
            * "The movie was **enormously** long and I fell asleep in the middle of it."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has been **enormously** beneficial for the local economy."
            * "The study examines the **enormously** complex and interconnected nature of the global financial system."
            * "The document highlights the **enormously** significant role that technology plays in modern education."
            * "The new law was passed with an **enormously** large majority in parliament."

**Synonyms**: Extremely, immensely, hugely, greatly, tremendously.

**Opposite words**: Slightly, barely, negligibly, minimally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *enormis* (out of rule, immense).



.. _manageable:

================================================================================
Manageable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmænɪdʒəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be controlled or dealt with without difficulty.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "manageable" is to be **within the capacity to be controlled, handled, or dealt with** effectively, without overwhelming a person or system.

**What it really means**: "**Manageable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not too difficult to control or deal with. It suggests that a problem or a task is a size that a person or a team can handle. For example, a **manageable** workload is one that is not too large or overwhelming.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that can be controlled or dealt with without difficulty.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **manageable** task," "a **manageable** workload," "a **manageable** size."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new car is a **manageable** size for driving in the city."
            * "I broke the project into small, **manageable** tasks."
            * "The problem seemed big at first, but with a little effort, it became **manageable**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the new policy has made the national debt a much more **manageable** problem."
            * "The study examines the strategies that people use to make a large and complex project more **manageable**."
            * "The document highlights the importance of providing employees with a **manageable** workload to reduce stress and burnout."
            * "The new software is designed to help users organize their data into **manageable** and easy-to-access files."

**Synonyms**: Controllable, easy, simple, achievable, handleable.

**Opposite words**: Unmanageable, difficult, hard, overwhelming, unwieldy.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *manus* (hand).



.. _sentence:

================================================================================
Sentence
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɛntəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A set of words that is complete in itself; (Verb) To declare the punishment of a convicted person.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **complete unit of thought in language**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **officially declare the punishment** for a crime.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**sentence**" is a set of words that expresses a complete thought. As a **verb**, to "**sentence**" a person means to officially declare their punishment for a crime they have been found guilty of.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a complete thought in language, and the verb to refer to a court's punishment.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a long **sentence**," "write a **sentence**."
        * **(Verb)** "**sentence** to," "be **sentenced**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The book is written in long, complicated **sentences**."
            * "The judge will **sentence** him to ten years in prison."
            * "I can't write a single **sentence** today; I have writer's block."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report's main argument is summarized in a clear and concise topic **sentence**."
            * "The study examines the effectiveness of different types of prison **sentences** in reducing crime rates."
            * "The document highlights the legal grounds on which a judge can **sentence** a person to death."
            * "The new language-learning software is designed to help students write grammatically correct **sentences**."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Phrase, clause, statement, verdict; (Verb) Punish, condemn, convict.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Fragment, run-on; (Verb) Acquit, exonerate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sententia* (opinion, way of thinking).



.. _doubtfully:

================================================================================
Doubtfully
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdaʊtfəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that shows a lack of certainty or confidence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "doubtfully" is to do something **with a feeling of uncertainty, hesitation, or suspicion**, lacking confidence in a belief or outcome.

**What it really means**: "**Doubtfully**" is an adverb used to describe an action that is done with a lack of certainty or confidence. It suggests that a person is not sure about something, and their actions reflect that feeling. For example, if you say "I'm not sure," you are speaking **doubtfully**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with a lack of certainty or confidence.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "to say **doubtfully**," "to look **doubtfully**," "to think **doubtfully**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He looked at the map **doubtfully**, not sure if he was going the right way."
            * "She said **doubtfully**, 'Are you sure this will work?'"
            * "I **doubtfully** accepted his offer, not sure if I could trust him."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the committee **doubtfully** accepted the new proposal, citing concerns about its financial viability."
            * "The study examines how a person's lack of confidence can lead them to **doubtfully** express their opinions in a group setting."
            * "The document highlights the importance of being able to address a customer's concerns when they speak **doubtfully** about a product."
            * "The new policy was passed **doubtfully**, with a very narrow margin of votes."

**Synonyms**: Uncertainly, hesitantly, sceptically, suspiciously, unconfidently.

**Opposite words**: Confidently, certainly, assuredly, surely, definitely.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *douter* (to fear, to doubt).



.. _accusations:

================================================================================
Accusations
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌækjuˈzeɪʃənz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (plural)
* **Simple Meaning**: Claims that someone has done something wrong.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "accusations" is **formal or informal claims that a person has committed a wrongdoing or crime**, often without definitive proof.

**What it really means**: "**Accusations**" is the plural form of the noun "accusation." It refers to claims that a person has done something wrong. It is often used in a legal context, where a person is charged with a crime, or in a more general sense, where a person is blamed for something.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to claims that someone has done something wrong.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make **accusations**," "face **accusations**," "deny **accusations**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He made a lot of false **accusations** about his former partner."
            * "The politician faced **accusations** of corruption from the opposition."
            * "She strongly denied all the **accusations** that were made against her."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the legal and ethical implications of making false **accusations** in the workplace."
            * "The study's findings are a result of a careful analysis of the **accusations** made against the company's management."
            * "The document highlights the importance of a fair and just legal system that allows a person to respond to **accusations**."
            * "The new law is designed to protect individuals from a number of **accusations** that are based on discrimination."

**Synonyms**: Claims, allegations, charges, indictments, assertions.

**Opposite words**: Defenses, exonerations, vindications.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *accusatio* (a charge).



.. _prescription:

================================================================================
Prescription
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈskrɪpʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An official order from a doctor for a patient to get a particular medicine.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "prescription" is a **written order from a medical professional for a specific medicine or treatment**, or a recommendation for a particular course of action.

**What it really means**: A "**prescription**" is a noun that refers to a doctor's official order for a patient to get a particular medicine. You need a **prescription** to get certain medications from a pharmacy. It can also refer to a recommendation for a particular course of action ("a **prescription** for success").

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a doctor's order for medicine or a recommendation.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a doctor's **prescription**," "get a **prescription**," "a **prescription** for."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to go to the pharmacy to get my **prescription** filled."
            * "The doctor gave me a **prescription** for some antibiotics."
            * "He said the key to a happy life is a **prescription** of hard work and love."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights the new regulations that have been put in place for a doctor's **prescription** of controlled substances."
            * "The study examines the long-term effects of a doctor's **prescription** of a particular type of medication."
            * "The document outlines the new law, which is designed to make it easier for people to get their **prescription** filled."
            * "The new policy is a clear **prescription** for the government to take a more active role in the economy."

**Synonyms**: (Medical) Order, direction, instruction; (General) Recommendation, formula, plan.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praescriptio* (an order written beforehand).


.. _entirely:

================================================================================
Entirely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈtaɪəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Completely; totally.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "entirely" is to be **whole, complete, or without any part missing**, leaving no room for a partial state.

**What it really means**: "**Entirely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is complete or whole. It is a stronger word than "mostly" and suggests that something is 100% true or complete. For example, if you say "I **entirely** agree with you," you mean you agree with every single point.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is complete or whole.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**entirely** different," "**entirely** agree," "**entirely** new."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The story is **entirely** different from what I remember."
            * "He was **entirely** to blame for the accident."
            * "The new car is an **entirely** new design from the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes that the company's financial situation has improved **entirely** due to the new CEO's leadership."
            * "The study's findings are **entirely** consistent with the results of previous research."
            * "The document states that the new law will **entirely** change the way that the government regulates the industry."
            * "The new theory is **entirely** based on a set of assumptions that have not yet been proven."

**Synonyms**: Completely, totally, wholly, fully, absolutely.

**Opposite words**: Partially, incompletely, partly, somewhat.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *entier* (whole, complete).



.. _briefly:

================================================================================
Briefly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈbriːfli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: For a short time; in a few words.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "briefly" is to be **short in duration or concise in expression**, without unnecessary length.

**What it really means**: "**Briefly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done for a short time or is said in a few words. It suggests a lack of detail or a short duration. For example, if you **briefly** explained something, you didn't go into a lot of detail.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done for a short time or said in a few words.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "speak **briefly**," "explain **briefly**," "stay **briefly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I'll **briefly** explain the rules before we start playing."
            * "She was only in town for a few days, so we saw her **briefly**."
            * "Can you **briefly** summarize the main points of the article?"
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report **briefly** outlines the main findings of the study before going into more detail."
            * "The study's introduction **briefly** summarizes the existing literature on the topic."
            * "The document states that the new policy will be **briefly** discussed at the next meeting."
            * "The new lecture series will **briefly** touch on a number of different topics related to the history of art."

**Synonyms**: Shortly, concisely, quickly, for a moment, in a nutshell.

**Opposite words**: At length, extensively, in detail, for a long time.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *brevis* (short).



.. _tidy:

================================================================================
Tidy
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtaɪdi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Arranged neatly; (Verb) To make something neat.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **neat, orderly, and well-arranged**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **make something neat** by arranging things in an orderly fashion.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**tidy**" describes something that is neat and well-arranged ("a **tidy** room"). As a **verb**, to "**tidy**" means to make something neat and orderly ("to **tidy** up your room").

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe something that is neat, and the verb to describe making something neat.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **tidy** room," "a **tidy** sum."
        * **(Verb)** "**tidy** up," "**tidy** your desk."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "You should **tidy** your room before your friends come over."
            * "He always keeps his desk very **tidy**."
            * "The house was in a **tidy** condition when we arrived."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new software is designed to help users organize their data into a **tidy** and easy-to-access format."
            * "The study examines how a **tidy** workspace can lead to a more productive and efficient work environment."
            * "The document highlights the importance of maintaining a **tidy** record of all financial transactions."
            * "The new regulations were put in place to ensure that all public spaces are kept in a **tidy** state."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Neat, orderly, clean, organized; (Verb) Clean up, arrange, organize.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Messy, untidy, disorganized, chaotic; (Verb) Mess up, disorganize.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *tid* (time).



.. _obstacle:

================================================================================
Obstacle
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɒbstəkəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A thing that blocks one's way or prevents progress.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "obstacle" is a **physical or abstract barrier that hinders progress** or makes it difficult to achieve a goal.

**What it really means**: An "**obstacle**" is a noun that refers to something that blocks your way or makes it difficult for you to do something. It can be a physical thing, such as a rock in the road, or a more abstract thing, such as a lack of money or a fear.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a thing that blocks one's way or prevents progress.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "an **obstacle** to," "overcome an **obstacle**," "a major **obstacle**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The biggest **obstacle** to our success is a lack of funding."
            * "The car had to swerve to avoid an **obstacle** in the road."
            * "He had to **overcome** a number of **obstacles** to get his degree."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that a lack of resources is a major **obstacle** to the country's economic development."
            * "The study examines the psychological **obstacles** that people face when trying to change their habits."
            * "The document highlights the new policies that are designed to remove the legal **obstacles** to international trade."
            * "The new technology is designed to help companies **overcome** the technical **obstacles** of their old systems."

**Synonyms**: Barrier, hindrance, impediment, hurdle, block, difficulty.

**Opposite words**: Advantage, aid, help, support, assistance.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *obstare* (to stand in the way).



.. _proximity:

================================================================================
Proximity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɒkˈsɪmɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: Nearness in space, time, or relationship.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "proximity" is the state of being **close in distance, time, or a social relationship**.

**What it really means**: "**Proximity**" is a noun that refers to the state of being near to something or someone. It is a more formal word for "nearness." For example, the **proximity** of the new school to the residential area is a major benefit for families.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of being near to something or someone.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "in close **proximity**," "the **proximity** to," "due to the **proximity**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The houses were built in close **proximity** to each other."
            * "Due to the **proximity** of the hurricane, we had to evacuate."
            * "I don't like to work in such close **proximity** to my boss."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new factory's **proximity** to the river is a major concern for environmental groups."
            * "The study examines how a person's physical **proximity** to another person can affect their social interactions."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a fire station in close **proximity** to a hospital."
            * "The new housing development's **proximity** to the city center is a major selling point."

**Synonyms**: Nearness, closeness, adjacency, vicinity, immediacy.

**Opposite words**: Distance, remoteness, farness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *proximus* (nearest).



.. _invitation:

================================================================================
Invitation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪnvɪˈteɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A written or spoken request to someone to go somewhere or to do something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "invitation" is an **act of asking someone to participate in an event or activity**, or to come to a place.

**What it really means**: An "**invitation**" is a noun that refers to a request to someone to come to an event, such as a party or a wedding. It can be a formal written card or a casual spoken request.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a request to someone to go somewhere or to do something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "an official **invitation**," "a formal **invitation**," "accept an **invitation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I received an **invitation** to his birthday party."
            * "He gave me a verbal **invitation** to come over for dinner."
            * "Thank you for the **invitation**; I would love to come."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the government has issued an official **invitation** to the foreign minister to visit the country."
            * "The study examines how the use of a formal **invitation** can affect a person's decision to attend an event."
            * "The document highlights the legal requirements for a company to issue an official **invitation** to a foreign employee."
            * "The new museum will host a special exhibition and has sent out **invitations** to a number of prominent artists."

**Synonyms**: Request, summons, call, bid, plea.

**Opposite words**: Rejection, exclusion, refusal.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *invitatio* (a summoning).



.. _harmful:

================================================================================
Harmful
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɑːmfəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Causing or likely to cause harm.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "harmful" is to be **injurious, damaging, or detrimental to a person, thing, or environment**.

**What it really means**: "**Harmful**" is an adjective used to describe something that causes harm or damage. It suggests a negative or dangerous effect. For example, a **harmful** chemical is a chemical that can cause damage to a person's health.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that causes harm or damage.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**harmful** effects," "**harmful** chemicals," "a **harmful** habit."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Smoking is a very **harmful** habit."
            * "The factory's waste is **harmful** to the environment."
            * "Eating too much sugar can have **harmful** effects on your teeth."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report concludes that the new pesticide has a number of **harmful** effects on the local ecosystem."
            * "The study examines the **harmful** psychological effects of bullying on children."
            * "The document highlights the new regulations that have been put in place to prevent the release of **harmful** chemicals into the air."
            * "The new law is designed to protect consumers from **harmful** products that are sold online."

**Synonyms**: Damaging, injurious, detrimental, dangerous, unhealthy.

**Opposite words**: Harmless, beneficial, helpful, safe, advantageous.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *hearm* (harm, injury).



.. _identification:

================================================================================
Identification
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/aɪˌdɛntɪfɪˈkeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of identifying someone or something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "identification" is the **process of recognizing and confirming the identity** of a person or thing, or a document used for that purpose.

**What it really means**: "**Identification**" is a noun that refers to the act of identifying someone or something. It can be the process of recognizing a person from a picture, or a document, such as a passport, that is used to prove a person's identity.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of identifying someone or something or a document used to prove identity.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "photo **identification**," "a form of **identification**," "the **identification** of a suspect."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to see some form of **identification** before I can let you in."
            * "The police are working on the **identification** of the suspect."
            * "The detective was able to make a positive **identification** of the stolen car."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new regulations require a number of different forms of **identification** for a person to open a bank account."
            * "The study examines the new technologies that are being used for the **identification** of rare species of animals."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear process for the **identification** of all new employees."
            * "The new law is designed to make it easier for people to get official forms of **identification**."

**Synonyms**: Recognition, authentication, verification, credentials, ID.

**Opposite words**: Misidentification.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *identitas* (sameness).



.. _primary:

================================================================================
Primary
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpraɪməri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Most important; main.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "primary" is to be the **first, most important, or fundamental** in a series or hierarchy.

**What it really means**: "**Primary**" is an adjective used to describe something that is most important or main. It suggests that something is the first or the most essential thing to consider. For example, a **primary** goal is the most important goal.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is most important or main.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **primary** concern," "a **primary** goal," "a **primary** source."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My **primary** goal for this year is to save enough money to buy a car."
            * "The **primary** concern of the government is to create new jobs."
            * "The **primary** reason I came here was to see you."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the **primary** cause of the problem is a lack of funding for the public education system."
            * "The study examines the role of a child's **primary** caregiver in their early development."
            * "The document highlights the importance of using a **primary** source of information for all historical research."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **primary** needs of the working class."

**Synonyms**: Main, chief, principal, fundamental, key, essential.

**Opposite words**: Secondary, subordinate, minor, auxiliary, unimportant.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *primarius* (of the first rank).



.. _dependent:

================================================================================
Dependent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈpɛndənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Relying on someone or something else for support; (Noun) A person who relies on another for support.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **controlled or influenced by something else**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a person who **relies on another for financial support**.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**dependent**" describes a person or a thing that relies on another person or a thing for support. For example, a child is **dependent** on their parents. It can also describe a situation where one thing relies on another ("our success is **dependent** on your help"). As a **noun**, a "**dependent**" is a person, usually a child, who relies on another for financial support.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe a person or a thing that relies on another, and the noun to refer to a person who relies on another for support.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**dependent** on," "mutually **dependent**."
        * **(Noun)** "a financial **dependent**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The success of the project is **dependent** on the team's hard work."
            * "He has two **dependents** to support, so he can't quit his job."
            * "The country is **dependent** on foreign aid for its survival."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the country's economy is too **dependent** on a single export."
            * "The study examines the effects of a parent's unemployment on their **dependent** children."
            * "The document highlights the importance of providing social support for all **dependent** members of the community."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people become less **dependent** on the government."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Reliant, conditional, subject to, controlled by; (Noun) Ward, charge.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Independent, self-reliant, autonomous; (Noun) Independent.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *dependere* (to hang down from).



.. _trigger:

================================================================================
Trigger
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtrɪɡər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) An event or thing that causes something to happen; (Verb) To cause something to happen.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **specific event or action that initiates a chain reaction**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **start or activate a process or event**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**trigger**" is an event or a thing that causes something to happen. For example, a specific sound can be a **trigger** for a person's anxiety. As a **verb**, to "**trigger**" means to cause something to happen.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to an event that causes something to happen, and the verb to describe causing something to happen.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **trigger** for," "a psychological **trigger**."
        * **(Verb)** "**trigger** an event," "**trigger** a response."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The loud noise was a **trigger** for my dog's anxiety."
            * "His rude comment **triggered** an argument between us."
            * "The new law could **trigger** a wave of protests."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that a specific chemical can **trigger** a powerful allergic reaction in some people."
            * "The study examines the psychological **triggers** that can lead to a person's relapse into addiction."
            * "The document highlights the importance of understanding the events that can **trigger** a financial crisis."
            * "The new policy is designed to **trigger** a new era of economic growth."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Catalyst, stimulus, cause, instigator; (Verb) Cause, prompt, activate, initiate, provoke.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Result, outcome, effect; (Verb) Stop, prevent, inhibit.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *trygg* (a trigger).



.. _erroneous:

================================================================================
Erroneous
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈrəʊniəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Incorrect or based on a wrong idea.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "erroneous" is to be **wrong or incorrect**, based on a mistaken belief or a false premise.

**What it really means**: "**Erroneous**" is an adjective used to describe something that is incorrect or based on a wrong idea. It is a more formal word for "wrong" or "mistaken." For example, an **erroneous** belief is a belief that is not true.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is incorrect or based on a wrong idea.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**erroneous** belief," "**erroneous** conclusion," "**erroneous** assumption."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The scientist's conclusion was based on an **erroneous** assumption."
            * "He made an **erroneous** claim about the company's financial status."
            * "The test result was an **erroneous** reading."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the previous study's findings were based on an **erroneous** methodology."
            * "The study examines how an **erroneous** belief system can lead a person to make poor decisions."
            * "The document highlights the importance of correcting any **erroneous** information in the public record."
            * "The new law was passed to prevent the spread of **erroneous** information online."

**Synonyms**: Incorrect, wrong, mistaken, false, flawed.

**Opposite words**: Correct, accurate, valid, true, sound.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *erroneus* (wandering).



.. _incidence:

================================================================================
Incidence
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɪnsɪdəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The occurrence or frequency of a disease, crime, or other unwanted thing.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "incidence" is the **rate at which something, especially something negative, occurs or is reported**, often used in a statistical or medical context.

**What it really means**: "**Incidence**" is a noun that refers to the rate or frequency of something, usually something negative, such as a disease or a crime. It is a more formal word for "rate" or "occurrence." For example, the **incidence** of heart disease has decreased in the last decade.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the rate or frequency of something, usually something negative.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **incidence** of," "a high **incidence**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The **incidence** of violent crime in the city has been increasing recently."
            * "The doctor said the **incidence** of the flu is very high this year."
            * "We are trying to reduce the **incidence** of workplace accidents."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the **incidence** of this particular illness is higher among older adults."
            * "The study examines the factors that contribute to the high **incidence** of poverty in the region."
            * "The document highlights the new policies that are designed to reduce the **incidence** of traffic accidents."
            * "The new law is designed to reduce the **incidence** of fraud in the financial industry."

**Synonyms**: Frequency, rate, occurrence, prevalence, regularity.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *incidere* (to fall upon).



.. _leading:

================================================================================
Leading
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈliːdɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Most important; main; foremost.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "leading" is to be in a **position of first or most important**, often in terms of influence, rank, or position.

**What it really means**: "**Leading**" is an adjective used to describe something that is most important or main. It suggests that something is in a position of authority or is the most significant. For example, a **leading** cause of death is the main cause.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is most important or main.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **leading** cause," "a **leading** expert," "a **leading** role."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a **leading** expert in the field of artificial intelligence."
            * "The company is a **leading** producer of electronic devices."
            * "She played the **leading** role in the new movie."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that poverty is a **leading** cause of crime in the country."
            * "The study examines the role of a **leading** scholar in shaping the discourse on a particular topic."
            * "The document highlights the new policies that are being implemented by the **leading** political party."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the company maintain its **leading** position in the market."

**Synonyms**: Main, chief, principal, primary, foremost, preeminent.

**Opposite words**: Minor, subordinate, secondary, trailing.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *lædan* (to guide).



.. _sufficiency:

================================================================================
Sufficiency
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈfɪʃənsi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state or quality of being enough.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "sufficiency" is the **state of having or being enough of something**, to a degree that meets a need or requirement without excess.

**What it really means**: "**Sufficiency**" is a noun that refers to the state of having enough of something. It suggests that a person has what they need and nothing more. It is a more formal word for "enough." For example, a person's income should provide for the **sufficiency** of their family.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of having enough of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **sufficiency** of," "to have **sufficiency**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new budget will provide for the **sufficiency** of the school's needs."
            * "He has a **sufficiency** of food and water to last him for a week."
            * "The **sufficiency** of the evidence was a key point in the trial."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the country's food supply is currently at a state of **sufficiency** to meet the needs of the population."
            * "The study examines how a person's feeling of **sufficiency** can affect their overall happiness and well-being."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a **sufficiency** of trained personnel to respond to a major emergency."
            * "The new law is designed to ensure the **sufficiency** of the resources available for the new project."

**Synonyms**: Adequacy, enough, completeness, abundance, plenty.

**Opposite words**: Insufficiency, lack, shortage, deficiency, inadequacy.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sufficere* (to be enough).



.. _hardly:

================================================================================
Hardly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɑːdli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Almost not; scarcely.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "hardly" is to a degree that is **almost not or very little**, suggesting that something is just barely happening or is unlikely.

**What it really means**: "**Hardly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is almost not happening. It suggests that something is very rare or unlikely. For example, if you say "I **hardly** know him," you mean you know him very little.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is almost not happening.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**hardly** ever," "**hardly** anything," "**hardly** anyone."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **hardly** ever go to the movies anymore."
            * "There was **hardly** anything left to eat after the party."
            * "The new rules have **hardly** had any effect on the situation."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has **hardly** had any impact on the unemployment rate in the country."
            * "The study's findings suggest that the new medication is **hardly** any more effective than the old one."
            * "The document highlights the fact that there is **hardly** any public support for the new law."
            * "The new technology has **hardly** been used in the industry, and its potential is still unknown."

**Synonyms**: Scarcely, barely, rarely, almost not.

**Opposite words**: Easily, frequently, often, a lot, much.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *heardlice* (with great effort).



.. _acquisition:

================================================================================
Acquisition
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌækwɪˈzɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of getting or obtaining something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "acquisition" is the **act or process of gaining possession of something**, often a skill, an asset, or knowledge.

**What it really means**: "**Acquisition**" is a noun that refers to the act of getting or obtaining something. It can be the **acquisition** of a new skill, the **acquisition** of a new company, or the **acquisition** of a new piece of art.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of getting or obtaining something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **acquisition** of," "a new **acquisition**," "language **acquisition**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The company's new **acquisition** will help it to expand into a new market."
            * "The **acquisition** of a new language is a very difficult process."
            * "The museum's new **acquisition** is a very rare painting."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the company's **acquisition** of a smaller firm was a key part of its growth strategy."
            * "The study examines the various factors that influence a child's language **acquisition**."
            * "The document highlights the legal requirements for the **acquisition** of a new company."
            * "The new law is designed to make it easier for people to get the **acquisition** of a new home."

**Synonyms**: Gaining, obtaining, purchase, procurement, learning.

**Opposite words**: Loss, divestment, sale, disposal, relinquishment.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *acquisitio* (a getting in addition).



.. _exclude:

================================================================================
Exclude
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈskluːd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To leave someone or something out of a group or activity.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "exclude" is to **keep something or someone out** of a group, a place, or a process.

**What it really means**: To "**exclude**" means to leave someone or something out of a group or an activity. It is the opposite of "include." For example, if you **exclude** a person from a meeting, you don't let them in.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of leaving someone or something out.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**exclude** from," "**exclude** a possibility," "**exclude** a person."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We decided to **exclude** that possibility from our list of options."
            * "The new policy will **exclude** a number of people from receiving the benefits."
            * "Don't **exclude** me from the conversation."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the new policy will **exclude** a large number of people from the social welfare program."
            * "The study examines the factors that can lead to the **exclusion** of a person from a social group."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and objective process for deciding which applicants to **exclude**."
            * "The new law is designed to **exclude** companies that do not meet the new safety standards."

**Synonyms**: Omit, leave out, bar, ban, prohibit, shut out.

**Opposite words**: Include, admit, welcome, accept, incorporate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *excludere* (to shut out).



.. _coincidence:

================================================================================
Coincidence
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəʊˈɪnsɪdəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A surprising occurrence of two or more events at the same time, seemingly by chance.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "coincidence" is a **remarkable or surprising set of events that occur at the same time** but seem to have no direct causal link.

**What it really means**: A "**coincidence**" is a noun that refers to a surprising event where two or more things happen at the same time, seemingly by chance. For example, it is a **coincidence** if you meet a person in a different city who you know from your hometown.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a surprising event where two or more things happen at the same time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a strange **coincidence**," "what a **coincidence**," "by sheer **coincidence**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "It was a strange **coincidence** that we were both at the same coffee shop at the same time."
            * "By sheer **coincidence**, I was thinking of you when you called."
            * "The two events happened by **coincidence** and were not connected."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the two events, while happening at the same time, were a **coincidence** and not related to each other."
            * "The study examines the human tendency to attribute meaning to **coincidence** and find patterns where none exist."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not assuming a connection between two events just because of a **coincidence**."
            * "The new policy was put in place at the same time as the new law, but this was a complete **coincidence**."

**Synonyms**: Chance, fluke, accident, serendipity, synchronicity.

**Opposite words**: Deliberate act, plan, design.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *coincidere* (to fall together).



.. _regulation:

================================================================================
Regulation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌrɛɡjuˈleɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A rule or directive made and maintained by an authority.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "regulation" is a **rule, law, or directive created by an authority to control or govern** a specific activity or area.

**What it really means**: A "**regulation**" is a noun that refers to an official rule or law that is made and maintained by an authority. It is often used to refer to a rule that a company or a person must follow. For example, a new **regulation** on food safety was passed by the government.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an official rule or law.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "government **regulation**," "safety **regulation**," "a new **regulation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The company has to follow all the new government **regulations**."
            * "The new safety **regulations** for the workplace are very strict."
            * "There is a new **regulation** about how to dispose of waste."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines the effects of a new government **regulation** on the country's economy."
            * "The study highlights the importance of having clear and consistent **regulations** in the financial industry."
            * "The document outlines the new **regulations** that have been put in place to protect the environment."
            * "The new law is a good example of a new **regulation** that is designed to protect consumers."

**Synonyms**: Rule, law, directive, statute, ordinance, control.

**Opposite words**: Deregulation, freedom, anarchy.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *regulatio* (a regulating).



.. _indifferent:

================================================================================
Indifferent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈdɪfrənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Having no particular interest or sympathy; unconcerned.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "indifferent" is to be **unconcerned, without interest, or lacking a preference** for one thing over another.

**What it really means**: "**Indifferent**" is an adjective used to describe a person who has no particular interest or sympathy for something. It suggests a lack of concern or a neutral attitude. For example, a person can be **indifferent** to what they eat for dinner, meaning they don't care what they have.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a person who has no particular interest or sympathy.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**indifferent** to," "an **indifferent** attitude."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was **indifferent** to the outcome of the game, since he didn't care who won."
            * "The government's **indifferent** attitude toward the crisis was widely criticized."
            * "I'm **indifferent** to what we have for dinner tonight; you can choose."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the company's **indifferent** approach to customer service has led to a loss of business."
            * "The study examines how a person's **indifferent** attitude to the suffering of others can be a sign of a mental health issue."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not being **indifferent** to the social problems in the community."
            * "The new law was passed despite the **indifferent** response of the public."

**Synonyms**: Unconcerned, apathetic, uninterested, unconcerned, neutral.

**Opposite words**: Concerned, interested, caring, enthusiastic, passionate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *indifferens* (not different).



.. _rescue:

================================================================================
Rescue
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrɛskjuː/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To save someone from a dangerous or difficult situation; (Noun) An act of saving someone.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **save a person or thing from danger or harm**. The core meaning of the **noun** is the **act of saving someone** from a perilous situation.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**rescue**" means to save someone or something from a dangerous or difficult situation. As a **noun**, a "**rescue**" is the act of saving someone. For example, a lifeguard might **rescue** a person who is drowning, and that act would be a **rescue**.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe saving someone, and the noun to refer to the act of saving someone.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**rescue** from," "**rescue** a person."
        * **(Noun)** "a dramatic **rescue**," "a fire **rescue**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The firefighter was able to **rescue** the cat from the tree."
            * "He jumped into the water to **rescue** the drowning child."
            * "The dog was a **rescue** from the local animal shelter."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the government's intervention was a **rescue** of the failing industry."
            * "The study examines the psychological effects of being a part of a search and **rescue** team."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan for the **rescue** of people from a burning building."
            * "The new policy is designed to **rescue** the country's economy from a state of crisis."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Save, free, deliver, liberate; (Noun) Salvation, liberation, deliverance.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Abandon, endanger, imperil; (Noun) Abandonment, peril.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *rescorre* (to save).



.. _endure:

================================================================================
Endure
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈdjʊər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To suffer something difficult or unpleasant patiently.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "endure" is to **continue to exist or to suffer through a difficult or painful experience** with resilience and patience.

**What it really means**: To "**endure**" means to suffer through something difficult or unpleasant patiently. It suggests a certain level of strength and resilience. For example, a person can **endure** a difficult illness or a long period of hardship.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of suffering through something difficult patiently.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**endure** pain," "**endure** hardship," "**endure** a difficult time."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She had to **endure** a lot of pain after the surgery."
            * "The soldiers had to **endure** a long winter with very little food."
            * "I can't **endure** this heat; it's too hot."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the country's population has had to **endure** a long period of political instability."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **endure** stress can affect their overall health and well-being."
            * "The document highlights the importance of providing support for people who have to **endure** a difficult and challenging time."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country's economy **endure** a period of low growth."

**Synonyms**: Tolerate, bear, withstand, suffer, persevere.

**Opposite words**: Surrender, give up, succumb, collapse, yield.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *indurare* (to make hard).



.. _precise:

================================================================================
Precise
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈsaɪs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Exact, accurate, and careful.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "precise" is to be **exact, accurate, and sharply defined**, without any ambiguity or vagueness.

**What it really means**: "**Precise**" is an adjective used to describe something that is exact, accurate, and careful. It suggests a high level of detail and a lack of ambiguity. For example, a **precise** measurement is an exact measurement.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is exact, accurate, and careful.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **precise** measurement," "a **precise** answer," "a **precise** time."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to know the **precise** time of the meeting."
            * "He gave me a **precise** answer to my question."
            * "The recipe calls for a **precise** amount of sugar."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report highlights the need for **precise** data collection to ensure the accuracy of the study's findings."
            * "The study examines how a person's **precise** use of language can affect their ability to communicate effectively."
            * "The document outlines the new system, which is designed to provide a **precise** reading of the temperature."
            * "The new law is designed to provide a **precise** definition of the legal terms used in the document."

**Synonyms**: Exact, accurate, specific, correct, meticulous.

**Opposite words**: Imprecise, vague, approximate, inexact, general.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praecisus* (cut off, brief).



.. _purpose:

================================================================================
Purpose
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpɜːpəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The reason for which something is done or created.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "purpose" is the **reason or intention behind an action, an object, or a person's existence**, providing meaning and direction.

**What it really means**: "**Purpose**" is a noun that refers to the reason for which something is done or created. It is the why behind an action or a thing. For example, the **purpose** of a car is to get from one place to another.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the reason for which something is done or created.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **purpose** of," "with a **purpose**," "a sense of **purpose**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The **purpose** of this meeting is to discuss the new project."
            * "I have a strong sense of **purpose** in my life."
            * "The new machine serves no **purpose** that I can see."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report outlines the **purpose** of the new policy, which is to reduce unemployment."
            * "The study examines how a person's sense of **purpose** can affect their overall happiness and well-being."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear **purpose** for all new projects."
            * "The new law is designed to fulfill the **purpose** of protecting the environment."

**Synonyms**: Reason, intention, aim, goal, objective, function.

**Opposite words**: Pointlessness, aimlessness, futility, meaninglessness.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *porpos* (an aim).



.. _acceptance:

================================================================================
Acceptance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əkˈsɛptəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of receiving something or the state of being received.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "acceptance" is the **act of receiving or agreeing to something**, or a state of being in harmony with a situation.

**What it really means**: "**Acceptance**" is a noun that refers to the act of receiving something or the state of being received. It can be the **acceptance** of an offer, the **acceptance** of a new idea, or the **acceptance** of a person into a group.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of receiving something or the state of being received.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **acceptance** of an offer," "social **acceptance**," "the **acceptance** of a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I was very happy about the **acceptance** of my job offer."
            * "He struggled to get the **acceptance** of his new friends."
            * "The new technology has gained wide **acceptance** in the industry."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has gained widespread **acceptance** among the public."
            * "The study examines the factors that influence a person's **acceptance** of a new idea or belief."
            * "The document highlights the importance of a clear and objective process for the **acceptance** of new students into the university."
            * "The new law is designed to promote the **acceptance** of diversity in the workplace."

**Synonyms**: Approval, agreement, reception, endorsement, welcome.

**Opposite words**: Rejection, refusal, denial, disapproval.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *accipere* (to take, to receive).



.. _efficient:

================================================================================
Efficient
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈfɪʃənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Achieving maximum productivity with minimum wasted effort or expense.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "efficient" is to **achieve a desired result without wasting resources**, such as time, money, or energy.

**What it really means**: "**Efficient**" is an adjective used to describe a person, a machine, or a process that works well and without wasting time, money, or energy. It suggests a high level of productivity and a lack of waste. For example, an **efficient** worker is a person who gets a lot of work done in a short amount of time.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a person, a machine, or a process that works well without wasting resources.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **efficient** worker," "an **efficient** system," "an **efficient** use of resources."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new machine is very **efficient** and uses very little electricity."
            * "She is a very **efficient** worker and gets a lot done in a short time."
            * "We need to find a more **efficient** way to do this task."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report argues that the new system is a more **efficient** way to manage the company's resources."
            * "The study examines the factors that contribute to a person's ability to be a more **efficient** learner."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having an **efficient** public transport system to reduce traffic congestion."
            * "The new law is designed to promote a more **efficient** use of the country's energy resources."

**Synonyms**: Productive, effective, streamlined, organized, economical.

**Opposite words**: Inefficient, wasteful, unproductive, ineffective, clumsy.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *efficere* (to carry out, to effect).



.. _attitude:

================================================================================
Attitude
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈætɪtjuːd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A settled way of thinking or feeling about something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "attitude" is a **person's settled way of thinking, feeling, or behaving**, which is often reflected in their actions and demeanor.

**What it really means**: An "**attitude**" is a noun that refers to a person's way of thinking or feeling about something. It can be a person's **attitude** toward their job, their **attitude** toward other people, or their **attitude** toward life in general. It is a way of looking at the world.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a person's way of thinking or feeling about something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a positive **attitude**," "a negative **attitude**," "have an **attitude**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a very positive **attitude** toward his new job."
            * "I don't like her **attitude**; she's always complaining."
            * "A good **attitude** can make a difficult situation much easier."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report examines how a person's **attitude** toward risk can affect their investment decisions."
            * "The study found that a positive **attitude** can have a significant impact on a person's overall health and well-being."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a respectful **attitude** toward all cultures and beliefs."
            * "The new policy is designed to promote a new **attitude** toward environmental protection in the country."

**Synonyms**: View, mindset, outlook, perspective, disposition.

**Opposite words**: N/A.

**Where it comes from**: From Italian *attitudine* (posture, disposition).



.. _disrupt:

================================================================================
Disrupt
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪsˈrʌpt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To interrupt an event, activity, or process by causing a disturbance or problem.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "disrupt" is to **break apart or throw into disorder**, thereby interrupting the normal course of something.

**What it really means**: To "**disrupt**" means to interrupt an event or a process by causing a disturbance or a problem. It suggests that something is being broken or thrown into a state of disorder. For example, a sudden noise can **disrupt** a meeting.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of interrupting an event or a process.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**disrupt** a meeting," "**disrupt** a process," "**disrupt** a system."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The loud music from the neighbor's house **disrupted** my sleep."
            * "A sudden power outage **disrupted** the whole city."
            * "We had to stop the meeting because of a technical problem that **disrupted** the video call."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new technology has the potential to **disrupt** the entire industry."
            * "The study examines how a lack of funding can **disrupt** the educational process in a developing country."
            * "The document highlights the new laws that are designed to prevent protesters from **disrupting** public order."
            * "The new policy is designed to **disrupt** the flow of illegal goods into the country."

**Synonyms**: Interrupt, disturb, upset, interfere with, halt.

**Opposite words**: Continue, maintain, support, facilitate, assist.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *disrumpere* (to break apart).



.. _anticipation:

================================================================================
Anticipation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ænˌtɪsɪˈpeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of expecting or predicting something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "anticipation" is the **feeling of excited expectation** for something that is going to happen in the future.

**What it really means**: "**Anticipation**" is a noun that refers to the feeling of expecting or predicting something. It is often used to describe a feeling of excitement or anxiety about a future event. For example, there was a lot of **anticipation** for the new movie.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the feeling of expecting or predicting something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "in **anticipation** of," "a sense of **anticipation**," "full of **anticipation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The children were full of **anticipation** for their birthday party."
            * "In **anticipation** of the storm, we bought extra food and water."
            * "There was a lot of **anticipation** for the new album to be released."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the company's stock price has risen in **anticipation** of the new product's release."
            * "The study examines how a person's level of **anticipation** can affect their experience of an event."
            * "The document highlights the importance of planning in **anticipation** of any potential problems."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the public's **anticipation** of a new economic crisis."

**Synonyms**: Expectation, foresight, hope, suspense, excitement.

**Opposite words**: Surprise, unexpectedness, doubt, dread.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *anticipatio* (a taking before).



.. _dissolve:

================================================================================
Dissolve
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈzɒlv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To become or cause to become incorporated into a liquid so as to form a solution.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "dissolve" is to **break down or be absorbed into a liquid**, or to **bring something to an end** by breaking it apart.

**What it really means**: To "**dissolve**" means to become or cause to become incorporated into a liquid. For example, sugar **dissolves** in water. It can also mean to bring something to an end, such as a marriage or a company.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of becoming or causing to become incorporated into a liquid, or to bring something to an end.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**dissolve** in water," "**dissolve** a company," "**dissolve** a marriage."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "You can **dissolve** the sugar in the hot tea."
            * "The company decided to **dissolve** the partnership after a few years."
            * "The protest was peaceful and **dissolved** on its own."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new chemical is designed to **dissolve** pollutants in the water."
            * "The study examines the factors that can cause a company to **dissolve** its operations."
            * "The document highlights the legal process for a company to **dissolve** its partnership with another firm."
            * "The new policy is designed to help companies that are in a process of **dissolving** their business."

**Synonyms**: Melt, disintegrate, break up, terminate, end.

**Opposite words**: Solidify, form, create, establish, unite.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *dissolvere* (to loosen, to break up).



.. _familiarity:

================================================================================
Familiarity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/fəˌmɪliˈærɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of knowing something or someone very well.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "familiarity" is a **state of comfortable and intimate knowledge** of something or someone, built through repeated exposure.

**What it really means**: "**Familiarity**" is a noun that refers to the state of knowing something or someone very well. It suggests a certain level of comfort and ease with a person or a situation. For example, a person's **familiarity** with the city helped them to navigate it with ease.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of knowing something or someone very well.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "**familiarity** with," "a sense of **familiarity**," "breed **familiarity**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "His **familiarity** with the local area was a great help to us."
            * "I don't have much **familiarity** with this new software."
            * "The long friendship led to a feeling of **familiarity** between them."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that a person's **familiarity** with a topic can affect their ability to understand new information."
            * "The study examines how a person's **familiarity** with a particular brand can influence their purchasing decisions."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a good **familiarity** with the laws of the country."
            * "The new policy is designed to promote a sense of **familiarity** with the new government."

**Synonyms**: Acquaintance, knowledge, intimacy, closeness, expertise.

**Opposite words**: Unfamiliarity, ignorance, strangeness, newness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *familiaris* (of a family).



.. _fairly:

================================================================================
Fairly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɛəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a moderate extent; reasonably.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "fairly" is to a **moderate or reasonable degree**, suggesting something is not extreme but is a bit more than average.

**What it really means**: "**Fairly**" is an adverb used to describe something to a moderate extent or reasonably. It is a word used to soften a statement, and it suggests that something is not extremely good or bad, but somewhere in the middle. For example, "the weather was **fairly** nice" means it was nice, but not exceptionally nice.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something to a moderate extent or reasonably.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**fairly** well," "**fairly** good," "**fairly** easy."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The test was **fairly** easy, so I think I did well."
            * "I'm **fairly** sure that I'll be able to get there on time."
            * "The food was **fairly** good, but not the best I've ever had."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has been **fairly** successful in achieving its goals."
            * "The study found that the new medicine is **fairly** effective in treating the disease."
            * "The document states that the new law has been **fairly** well-received by the public."
            * "The new technology is **fairly** simple to use and has a lot of potential."

**Synonyms**: Quite, reasonably, moderately, somewhat, rather.

**Opposite words**: Extremely, very, completely, totally.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *fager* (beautiful, pleasing).



.. _repetitive:

================================================================================
Repetitive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈpɛtətɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Containing or characterized by repetition, especially when this is considered boring or uninteresting.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "repetitive" is to be **marked by the constant recurrence of the same thing**, which often leads to monotony or boredom.

**What it really means**: "**Repetitive**" is an adjective used to describe something that is repeated many times, often to the point of being boring or uninteresting. For example, a **repetitive** task is a task that you have to do over and over again.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is repeated many times, often to the point of being boring or uninteresting.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **repetitive** task," "a **repetitive** song," "a **repetitive** motion."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The work I do is very **repetitive** and boring."
            * "I don't like this song because the chorus is too **repetitive**."
            * "Doing this kind of work can lead to a **repetitive** strain injury."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that a **repetitive** work environment can lead to a decrease in employee motivation."
            * "The study examines how a **repetitive** learning process can affect a student's ability to learn new things."
            * "The document highlights the new regulations that are designed to prevent workers from having to do **repetitive** tasks."
            * "The new technology is designed to help companies automate **repetitive** tasks and free up their employees to do more creative work."

**Synonyms**: Monotonous, tedious, tiresome, unvaried.

**Opposite words**: Varied, diverse, exciting, stimulating, new.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *repetere* (to repeat).



.. _widespread:

================================================================================
Widespread
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈwaɪdsprɛd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Found or distributed over a large area or among many people.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "widespread" is to be **present or prevalent across a broad area or among a large number of people**, indicating broad distribution.

**What it really means**: "**Widespread**" is an adjective used to describe something that is found or distributed over a large area or among many people. For example, **widespread** support for a new law means a lot of people support it.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is found or distributed over a large area or among many people.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**widespread** support," "**widespread** use," "**widespread** damage."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new disease has become **widespread** in the country."
            * "There was **widespread** damage after the hurricane."
            * "The idea of going to the movies is a **widespread** form of entertainment."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that there is **widespread** concern about the effects of climate change."
            * "The study examines the factors that contribute to the **widespread** use of social media among young people."
            * "The document highlights the new policies that are designed to address the **widespread** problem of poverty."
            * "The new technology is a result of **widespread** research and development in the field."

**Synonyms**: Extensive, prevalent, pervasive, common, general.

**Opposite words**: Limited, restricted, narrow, localized, isolated.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *wid* (wide) and *spræd* (spread).



.. _regulate:

================================================================================
Regulate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrɛɡjəleɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To control or maintain the rate or speed of a machine or system so that it operates properly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "regulate" is to **control or govern something by rules or methods**, ensuring that it operates according to a set standard.

**What it really means**: To "**regulate**" means to control or maintain the rate or speed of a machine or system so that it operates properly. It can also mean to control something by rules or laws. For example, the government can **regulate** the financial industry.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of controlling or maintaining something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**regulate** the temperature," "**regulate** an industry," "**regulate** a system."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The thermostat is used to **regulate** the temperature in the room."
            * "The government needs to **regulate** the use of drones."
            * "The new laws were put in place to **regulate** the online content."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new laws are designed to **regulate** the use of social media in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's body can **regulate** its own temperature in different environments."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent system to **regulate** the flow of traffic."
            * "The new policy is designed to **regulate** the use of natural resources in the country."

**Synonyms**: Control, govern, manage, adjust, supervise.

**Opposite words**: Deregulate, free, loosen, release, let go.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *regulare* (to control by rule).



.. _failure:

================================================================================
Failure
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfeɪljər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of not succeeding in something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "failure" is the **lack of success or the inability to achieve a desired outcome**, whether in an action or an event.

**What it really means**: "**Failure**" is a noun that refers to the act of not succeeding in something. It can be the **failure** of a plan, the **failure** of a project, or the **failure** of a person to achieve a goal.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of not succeeding in something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a complete **failure**," "a **failure** to," "a **failure** of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The project was a complete **failure** because we ran out of money."
            * "His **failure** to get the job was a big disappointment to him."
            * "The government's **failure** to address the problem led to a lot of protests."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the **failure** of the previous policy was due to a lack of funding and public support."
            * "The study examines the factors that can lead to a person's **failure** to achieve their goals."
            * "The document highlights the importance of learning from past **failures** and not making the same mistakes again."
            * "The new policy is designed to prevent the **failure** of the country's economy."

**Synonyms**: Defeat, collapse, downfall, disaster, shortcoming.

**Opposite words**: Success, achievement, victory, triumph, accomplishment.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *faillir* (to fail).



.. _accidentally:

================================================================================
Accidentally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌæksɪˈdɛntəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: By chance; unintentionally.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "accidentally" is to **occur or happen by chance or without deliberate intention**.

**What it really means**: "**Accidentally**" is an adverb used to describe something that happens by chance or unintentionally. It suggests that something was not planned or done on purpose. For example, if you **accidentally** drop your phone, you didn't mean to do it.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happens by chance or unintentionally.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**accidentally** on purpose," "**accidentally** deleted," "**accidentally** found."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **accidentally** deleted all the files from my computer."
            * "She **accidentally** ran into her old friend at the store."
            * "He **accidentally** said the wrong thing and offended everyone."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the company **accidentally** released confidential information to the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's mistakes can **accidentally** lead to a new discovery."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear process to prevent employees from **accidentally** deleting important data."
            * "The new law is designed to protect people who **accidentally** break the law."

**Synonyms**: Unintentionally, inadvertently, by mistake, by chance.

**Opposite words**: Intentionally, deliberately, on purpose, purposely.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *accidens* (a happening).



.. _broadly:

================================================================================
Broadly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈbrɔːdli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In general terms; in a wide range of ways.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "broadly" is to be **in a wide or general way**, without focusing on specific details.

**What it really means**: "**Broadly**" is an adverb used to describe something in general terms or in a wide range of ways. It suggests that you are not going into a lot of detail, but are giving a general overview. For example, "the book is **broadly** about history" means that it covers a lot of different historical topics.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something in general terms or in a wide range of ways.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**broadly** speaking," "**broadly** similar," "**broadly** in agreement."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "**Broadly** speaking, I think you're right about that."
            * "The two ideas are **broadly** similar, but there are some differences."
            * "We are **broadly** in agreement on the main points of the plan."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **broadly** in line with the government's long-term goals."
            * "The study examines how the two different theories are **broadly** similar in their conclusions."
            * "The document highlights the new laws that are **broadly** designed to protect the environment."
            * "The new technology is **broadly** applicable to a number of different industries."

**Synonyms**: Generally, widely, largely, in a general way, in the main.

**Opposite words**: Narrowly, specifically, precisely, exactly, particularly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *brad* (broad).



.. _simple:

================================================================================
Simple
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɪmpəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Easily understood or done; not complicated.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "simple" is to be **easy to understand or do**, without any complexity or difficulty.

**What it really means**: "**Simple**" is an adjective used to describe something that is easily understood or done. It suggests a lack of complexity or difficulty. For example, a **simple** recipe is a recipe that is easy to follow.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is easily understood or done.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **simple** question," "a **simple** task," "a **simple** solution."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The instructions were so **simple** that I finished the task in no time."
            * "It's a very **simple** problem with an even more **simple** solution."
            * "I like to keep my life **simple** and not have a lot of things."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new software has a **simple** and easy-to-use interface."
            * "The study examines how a person's **simple** lifestyle can lead to a more fulfilling life."
            * "The document highlights the importance of providing a **simple** explanation of the new policy."
            * "The new law is designed to provide a **simple** and effective solution to the problem of unemployment."

**Synonyms**: Easy, straightforward, uncomplicated, basic, clear.

**Opposite words**: Complicated, difficult, complex, intricate, elaborate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *simplex* (simple, single).



.. _benefit:

================================================================================
Benefit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈbɛnɪfɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) An advantage or profit gained from something; (Verb) To receive an advantage.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **positive effect or advantage** that is gained from something. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **receive a positive effect** from something.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**benefit**" is an advantage or a profit that is gained from something. For example, a good education is a **benefit** to a person's life. As a **verb**, to "**benefit**" means to receive an advantage from something.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to an advantage or a profit, and the verb to describe receiving an advantage.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a clear **benefit**," "for the **benefit** of," "to your **benefit**."
        * **(Verb)** "**benefit** from," "**benefit** a person."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new gym is a great **benefit** to the community."
            * "I **benefit** from getting a good night's sleep every night."
            * "The new law is for the **benefit** of all the people."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will have a number of social and economic **benefits**."
            * "The study examines how a person can **benefit** from a healthy diet and regular exercise."
            * "The document highlights the new policies that are designed to provide a number of **benefits** for the working class."
            * "The new technology is designed to **benefit** the entire industry by making it more efficient."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Advantage, gain, good, profit, help; (Verb) Gain, profit, help, assist.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Disadvantage, drawback, harm, loss; (Verb) Harm, hurt, disadvantage.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *benefacere* (to do good).



.. _currently:

================================================================================
Currently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkʌrəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: At the present time.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "currently" is to be **at this very moment or in the present time period**, indicating a temporary state.

**What it really means**: "**Currently**" is an adverb used to describe something that is happening at the present time. It is a more formal word for "now." For example, the company is **currently** working on a new project.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is happening at the present time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**currently** in use," "**currently** unavailable," "**currently** working on."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The book is **currently** on my desk, so I can give it to you later."
            * "I am **currently** looking for a new job."
            * "The system is **currently** down for maintenance."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the company is **currently** in a state of financial crisis."
            * "The study examines the new policies that are **currently** being implemented by the government."
            * "The document highlights the fact that the new law is **currently** being debated in parliament."
            * "The new technology is **currently** being tested and is not yet available to the public."

**Synonyms**: At present, at the moment, now, presently.

**Opposite words**: Previously, formerly, in the past.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *currens* (running).



.. _sustain:

================================================================================
Sustain
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈsteɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To strengthen or support physically or mentally.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "sustain" is to **keep something going or to provide the necessary support** for it to continue, often over a long period.

**What it really means**: To "**sustain**" means to strengthen or support something physically or mentally. It can also mean to keep something going over a long period of time. For example, a person's diet can **sustain** their health, or a company can **sustain** a long period of growth.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of strengthening or supporting something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**sustain** life," "**sustain** a project," "**sustain** a business."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new engine can **sustain** a high speed for a long period of time."
            * "The doctors were able to **sustain** the patient's life for another week."
            * "She was able to **sustain** a long conversation with her friend."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **sustain** the country's economic growth."
            * "The study examines how a person's social connections can **sustain** their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent strategy to **sustain** the company's growth."
            * "The new technology is designed to **sustain** the use of renewable energy sources."

**Synonyms**: Support, maintain, uphold, continue, keep going, bear.

**Opposite words**: Hinder, stop, harm, damage, prevent.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sustinere* (to hold up).



.. _preventive:

================================================================================
Preventive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈvɛntɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Designed to keep something undesirable from happening.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "preventive" is to be a **measure or action taken to stop something undesirable from occurring** in the first place.

**What it really means**: "**Preventive**" is an adjective used to describe something that is designed to keep something undesirable from happening. It suggests that a person is taking action to stop a problem before it starts. For example, **preventive** medicine is medicine that is designed to stop a person from getting sick.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is designed to keep something undesirable from happening.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**preventive** measures," "**preventive** medicine," "**preventive** care."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The doctor advised me to take some **preventive** measures to avoid getting sick."
            * "The company put in place a number of **preventive** measures to stop the spread of the virus."
            * "The new laws are a **preventive** measure to stop the crime rate from rising."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **preventive** measure designed to stop a financial crisis."
            * "The study examines how a person's **preventive** health care can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan of **preventive** measures to address a potential emergency."
            * "The new law is designed to be a **preventive** measure against a future war."

**Synonyms**: Precautionary, protective, defensive, deterrent.

**Opposite words**: Curative, restorative, remedial, therapeutic.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praevenire* (to come before).



.. _enslavement:

================================================================================
Enslavement
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈsleɪvmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being a slave or the act of making someone a slave.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "enslavement" is the **condition of being held in servitude or the act of forcing someone into that state**, often against their will.

**What it really means**: "**Enslavement**" is a noun that refers to the state of being a slave or the act of making someone a slave. It is a very strong and negative word that refers to the complete lack of freedom and control over one's own life.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of being a slave or the act of making someone a slave.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **enslavement** of," "the **enslavement** of a people," "the **enslavement** of a nation."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is designed to prevent the **enslavement** of people in the country."
            * "The documentary explored the history of **enslavement** in the world."
            * "She was a victim of **enslavement** and had to fight for her freedom."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the **enslavement** of people is a serious human rights violation."
            * "The study examines how the **enslavement** of people has affected the course of history."
            * "The document highlights the new international laws that are designed to prevent the **enslavement** of people."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the issue of modern **enslavement** in the country."

**Synonyms**: Slavery, bondage, servitude, subjugation, oppression.

**Opposite words**: Freedom, liberation, independence, autonomy.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *slæf* (slave).



.. _deniable:

================================================================================
Deniable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈnaɪəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be denied.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "deniable" is to be **able to be disavowed or legitimately denied**, suggesting a lack of definitive proof.

**What it really means**: "**Deniable**" is an adjective used to describe something that can be denied. It suggests that there is no definitive proof of something, and so a person can deny that it happened. For example, a person's involvement in a crime can be **deniable** if there is no evidence.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that can be denied.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "plausibly **deniable**," "easily **deniable**," "not **deniable**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "His involvement in the crime was **deniable** because there was no evidence."
            * "The company's claim was easily **deniable** because it was not backed up by facts."
            * "The new policy is not **deniable** because it is a matter of public record."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the government's involvement in the scandal was **deniable** because of a lack of evidence."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deniable** actions can affect their reputation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear record of all transactions so that they are not **deniable**."
            * "The new law is designed to make it so that a person's actions are no longer **deniable**."

**Synonyms**: Disputable, questionable, refutable, challengeable.

**Opposite words**: Undeniable, irrefutable, undeniable, incontrovertible, obvious.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *denegare* (to deny).



.. _disappear:

================================================================================
Disappear
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdɪsəˈpɪər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To cease to be visible.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "disappear" is to **vanish from sight or cease to exist**, becoming invisible or no longer present.

**What it really means**: To "**disappear**" means to cease to be visible. It suggests that something has gone away and can no longer be seen. For example, a magician can make a rabbit **disappear** from a hat.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of ceasing to be visible.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**disappear** into," "**disappear** from," "**disappear** without a trace."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The sun will **disappear** behind the clouds in a few minutes."
            * "The magician made the coin **disappear** from his hand."
            * "My keys have **disappeared**, and I can't find them anywhere."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the species of bird has **disappeared** from the area due to a change in the environment."
            * "The study examines how a person's memory of an event can **disappear** over time."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear record of all transactions so that they do not **disappear**."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent the **disappearance** of a person's rights."

**Synonyms**: Vanish, fade, vanish, dissolve, evaporate.

**Opposite words**: Appear, emerge, surface, materialize, show up.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *desapere* (to disappear).



.. _mediation:

================================================================================
Mediation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌmiːdiˈeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The act or process of mediating.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "mediation" is the **process of intervening in a dispute to help the parties reach an agreement**, often through negotiation.

**What it really means**: "**Mediation**" is a noun that refers to the process of intervening in a dispute to help the parties reach an agreement. It is often used in a legal or business context, where a third party helps to resolve a conflict.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the process of intervening in a dispute to help the parties reach an agreement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a process of **mediation**," "legal **mediation**," "in need of **mediation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The two countries are in a state of conflict and are in need of **mediation**."
            * "The couple decided to go to **mediation** to try to save their marriage."
            * "The company and the workers decided to go to **mediation** to resolve their dispute."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the use of **mediation** can be a more effective way to resolve a dispute than going to court."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to engage in **mediation** can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and objective process for **mediation** in the workplace."
            * "The new law is designed to promote the use of **mediation** as a way to resolve legal disputes."

**Synonyms**: Arbitration, negotiation, conciliation, intervention, reconciliation.

**Opposite words**: Conflict, dispute, war, fight.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *mediare* (to be in the middle).



.. _presently:

================================================================================
Presently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɛzəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a short time; soon.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "presently" is to be **in a short time from now**, or to be **at the present moment** (more commonly in formal English).

**What it really means**: "**Presently**" is an adverb that can mean "soon" or "at the present time," depending on the context. In formal English, it is often used to mean "at the present time," but in informal English, it is often used to mean "soon."

**When to use it**: Use it to mean "soon" or "at the present time."
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**presently** available," "**presently** in a state of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I'll be there **presently**; I just have to finish this task."
            * "He is **presently** working on a new project."
            * "The book is **presently** unavailable at the library, but you can check back later."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **presently** being implemented by the government."
            * "The study examines the new technologies that are **presently** being used in the industry."
            * "The document highlights the new laws that are **presently** being debated in parliament."
            * "The new technology is **presently** in a state of development and is not yet available to the public."

**Synonyms**: Soon, shortly, in a moment, currently, at present.

**Opposite words**: Later, in the future, in the past.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *presenter* (to present).



.. _sufficient:

================================================================================
Sufficient
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈfɪʃənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Enough; adequate.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "sufficient" is to be **enough or adequate to meet a specific need or purpose**, without being excessive.

**What it really means**: "**Sufficient**" is an adjective used to describe something that is enough or adequate. It suggests that a person has what they need and nothing more. For example, a person's income should be **sufficient** to provide for their family.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is enough or adequate.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**sufficient** funds," "**sufficient** evidence," "**sufficient** time."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have **sufficient** funds to pay for the new car."
            * "The police did not have **sufficient** evidence to charge him with the crime."
            * "We need to allow **sufficient** time to complete the project."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the country's food supply is **sufficient** to meet the needs of the population."
            * "The study examines how a person's feeling of **sufficiency** can affect their overall happiness and well-being."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a **sufficient** number of trained personnel to respond to a major emergency."
            * "The new law is designed to ensure the **sufficient** allocation of resources for the new project."

**Synonyms**: Enough, adequate, ample, plenty, satisfactory.

**Opposite words**: Insufficient, inadequate, lacking, deficient.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sufficere* (to be enough).



.. _reception:

================================================================================
Reception
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈsɛpʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action or process of receiving something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "reception" is the **act of receiving something**, such as a signal, a person, or an idea, and also the way in which something is received.

**What it really means**: "**Reception**" is a noun that refers to the action or process of receiving something. It can be the **reception** of a new idea, the **reception** of a new employee, or the **reception** of a new television signal.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action or process of receiving something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a warm **reception**," "poor **reception**," "the **reception** of a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new television show had a very positive **reception** from the critics."
            * "I couldn't hear the call because of the poor **reception** on my phone."
            * "The new employee received a warm **reception** from her new colleagues."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has had a very positive **reception** among the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **reception** of a new idea can affect their beliefs."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent process for the **reception** of new students into the university."
            * "The new law is designed to promote a positive **reception** of diversity in the workplace."

**Synonyms**: Welcome, greeting, acceptance, response, feedback.

**Opposite words**: Rejection, dismissal, exclusion, disapproval.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *receptio* (a receiving).



.. _quality:

================================================================================
Quality
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkwɒləti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The standard of something as measured against other things of a similar kind.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "quality" is the **degree of excellence or the standard of something**, which can be measured against other similar items.

**What it really means**: "**Quality**" is a noun that refers to the standard of something as measured against other things of a similar kind. It can be the **quality** of a product, the **quality** of a person's work, or the **quality** of a person's life.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the standard of something as measured against other things of a similar kind.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "high **quality**," "low **quality**," "a **quality** product."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "This is a very high-**quality** product that will last for years."
            * "The **quality** of the food in this restaurant is not very good."
            * "We need to improve the **quality** of our work to get more customers."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the **quality** of the new products has improved significantly."
            * "The study examines how a person's **quality** of life can be affected by their social connections."
            * "The document highlights the importance of maintaining a high **quality** of service for all customers."
            * "The new law is designed to promote the **quality** of education in the country."

**Synonyms**: Standard, excellence, value, grade, caliber.

**Opposite words**: Poor quality, inferiority.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *qualis* (of what kind).



.. _remarkable:

================================================================================
Remarkable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈmɑːkəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Worthy of attention; striking.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "remarkable" is to be **worthy of being noticed or remarked upon**, often because of an extraordinary or unusual quality.

**What it really means**: "**Remarkable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is worthy of attention or striking. It suggests that something is so good or so unusual that it deserves to be noticed. For example, a **remarkable** achievement is an achievement that is very impressive.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is worthy of attention or striking.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **remarkable** achievement," "a **remarkable** person," "a **remarkable** change."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "It was a **remarkable** achievement for such a young person."
            * "She has a **remarkable** talent for singing."
            * "The new technology has had a **remarkable** effect on the industry."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has had a **remarkable** effect on the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **remarkable** memory can be a sign of a high level of intelligence."
            * "The document highlights the **remarkable** achievements of the new government."
            * "The new law is designed to promote the **remarkable** abilities of the country's scientists."

**Synonyms**: Extraordinary, outstanding, noteworthy, impressive, amazing.

**Opposite words**: Unremarkable, ordinary, common, average, uninteresting.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *remarquer* (to mark, to notice).



.. _fulfil:

================================================================================
Fulfil
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/fʊlˈfɪl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To bring to completion or reality; to satisfy a requirement.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "fulfil" is to **bring to completion or to make a promise or expectation a reality**.

**What it really means**: To "**fulfil**" means to bring something to completion or to satisfy a requirement. It suggests that a person has done what they promised to do or that a requirement has been met. For example, a person can **fulfil** a promise or a contract.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of bringing something to completion or satisfying a requirement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**fulfil** a promise," "**fulfil** a dream," "**fulfil** a requirement."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I was able to **fulfil** my promise to my friend and help them move."
            * "He was able to **fulfil** his dream of becoming a doctor."
            * "The new car **fulfils** all of my needs and requirements."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has been able to **fulfil** its original goals."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **fulfil** their potential can affect their overall happiness and well-being."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan to **fulfil** the new requirements of the law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **fulfil** the needs of the modern consumer."

**Synonyms**: Complete, achieve, accomplish, satisfy, meet.

**Opposite words**: Fail, neglect, abandon, disregard, disappoint.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *fullfillan* (to fill up).



.. _expedition:

================================================================================
Expedition
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɛkspɪˈdɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A journey undertaken by a group of people with a particular purpose, especially that of exploration.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "expedition" is a **journey or voyage undertaken for a specific purpose**, such as exploration, research, or war.

**What it really means**: An "**expedition**" is a noun that refers to a journey undertaken by a group of people with a particular purpose, such as exploration or research. It suggests that a person is going on a long and often difficult journey to achieve a goal.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a journey undertaken by a group of people with a particular purpose.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a scientific **expedition**," "a military **expedition**," "an exploration **expedition**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new **expedition** to the Amazon rainforest will study the new species of plants."
            * "The military **expedition** was a complete success and they were able to capture the enemy."
            * "The exploration **expedition** to the North Pole was a very difficult journey."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new **expedition** to Mars is a major step in the history of space exploration."
            * "The study examines how a person's participation in an **expedition** can affect their mental and physical health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for a new **expedition**."
            * "The new law is designed to promote the use of scientific **expeditions** in the country."

**Synonyms**: Journey, voyage, trip, tour, exploration.

**Opposite words**: Retreat, return, stay.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *expeditio* (a setting forth).



.. _incidentally:

================================================================================
Incidentally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪnsɪˈdɛntəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In an unplanned or secondary way; by the way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "incidentally" is to be **in a way that is not planned or is of secondary importance**, often used to introduce a casual or related thought.

**What it really means**: "**Incidentally**" is an adverb used to describe something that happens in an unplanned or secondary way. It is often used to introduce a new topic in a conversation, and it is a more formal way of saying "by the way."

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happens in an unplanned or secondary way, or to introduce a new topic.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**incidentally**," "and **incidentally**," "by the way, **incidentally**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "**Incidentally**, I saw your brother at the store yesterday."
            * "I went to the store to buy some milk, and **incidentally** I also bought some bread."
            * "The new policy, **incidentally**, also applies to people who live outside the city."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy, **incidentally**, also has a number of social benefits."
            * "The study examines how a person's **incidentally** acquired knowledge can affect their ability to learn new things."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not getting distracted by **incidentally** related information."
            * "The new law is designed to address a number of different problems, **incidentally** also helping to reduce unemployment."

**Synonyms**: By the way, by chance, by the by, accidentally, coincidentally.

**Opposite words**: Intentionally, deliberately, on purpose, purposely.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *incidere* (to fall upon).



.. _tendency:

================================================================================
Tendency
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtɛndənsi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An inclination toward a particular characteristic or type of behavior.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "tendency" is an **inclination or disposition to act in a certain way**, or for something to happen in a particular manner.

**What it really means**: "**Tendency**" is a noun that refers to an inclination toward a particular characteristic or type of behavior. It suggests that a person or a thing is likely to do something. For example, a person can have a **tendency** to be late for appointments.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an inclination toward a particular characteristic or type of behavior.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **tendency** to," "a natural **tendency**," "a strong **tendency**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a **tendency** to be late for his appointments."
            * "The weather has a **tendency** to change very quickly in this area."
            * "I have a natural **tendency** to be a bit shy in new situations."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has a **tendency** to favor large companies over small businesses."
            * "The study examines how a person's **tendency** to procrastinate can affect their academic performance."
            * "The document highlights the importance of understanding a person's natural **tendency** to avoid risk."
            * "The new law is designed to correct the **tendency** of the government to overspend."

**Synonyms**: Inclination, predisposition, propensity, leaning, disposition.

**Opposite words**: Aversion, reluctance, disinclination, dislike.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *tendere* (to stretch, to aim).



.. _gentle:

================================================================================
Gentle
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdʒɛntəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Having a mild, kind, or quiet nature.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "gentle" is to be **mild, soft, and kind in nature**, without harshness, force, or violence.

**What it really means**: "**Gentle**" is an adjective used to describe a person who has a mild, kind, or quiet nature. It can also be used to describe an action that is not forceful or harsh. For example, a **gentle** touch is a touch that is not rough or strong.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a person who has a mild, kind, or quiet nature, or an action that is not forceful.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **gentle** touch," "a **gentle** person," "a **gentle** breeze."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She is a very **gentle** person who is always kind to everyone."
            * "The new dog is very **gentle** with the children."
            * "A **gentle** breeze blew through the window."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **gentle** approach to a very difficult problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **gentle** nature can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of using a **gentle** approach to a person who is in distress."
            * "The new law is designed to provide a more **gentle** and humane way to deal with a person who has a mental illness."

**Synonyms**: Kind, mild, soft, tender, serene.

**Opposite words**: Harsh, rough, cruel, violent, aggressive.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *gentilis* (of a clan or family).



.. _create:

================================================================================
Create
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kriˈeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To bring something into existence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "create" is to **bring something new into existence**, whether it's a physical object, an idea, or a system.

**What it really means**: To "**create**" means to bring something into existence. It is the act of making something new. For example, a person can **create** a new piece of art, or a company can **create** a new product.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of bringing something into existence.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**create** a new product," "**create** a new law," "**create** a new system."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I want to **create** a new painting for my living room."
            * "The government is trying to **create** more jobs in the country."
            * "The new company will **create** a new product that will change the world."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will **create** a number of new opportunities for small businesses."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **create** new ideas can affect their success in life."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear process to **create** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **create** a more efficient way to produce goods."

**Synonyms**: Make, produce, invent, design, generate.

**Opposite words**: Destroy, ruin, demolish, eliminate, abolish.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *creare* (to make, to produce).



.. _inconveniently:

================================================================================
Inconveniently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪnkənˈviːniəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that causes trouble or difficulty.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "inconveniently" is to be **in a way that causes difficulty, annoyance, or an obstacle to a plan**.

**What it really means**: "**Inconveniently**" is an adverb used to describe something that happens in a way that causes trouble or difficulty. It suggests that something is happening at a bad time or in a bad place. For example, the bus arrived **inconveniently** late, so I missed my appointment.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happens in a way that causes trouble or difficulty.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**inconveniently** late," "**inconveniently** located," "**inconveniently** scheduled."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The meeting was **inconveniently** scheduled for a time when I was not available."
            * "The store is **inconveniently** located far away from my house."
            * "The bus arrived **inconveniently** late, and I missed my flight."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was **inconveniently** announced at a time when the public was not paying attention."
            * "The study examines how a person's **inconveniently** scheduled appointments can affect their ability to manage their time."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not **inconveniently** scheduling a meeting during a holiday."
            * "The new law was **inconveniently** passed at a time when the government was in a state of crisis."

**Synonyms**: Awkwardly, unfortunately, unsuitably, untimely.

**Opposite words**: Conveniently, fortunately, suitably, timely.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *inconveniens* (not fitting).



.. _monthly:

================================================================================
Monthly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmʌnθli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Happening or done once every month; (Adv) Once every month.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "monthly" is to **happen, be paid, or occur once every month**, indicating a specific, regular time frame.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**monthly**" describes something that happens or is done once every month ("a **monthly** meeting"). As an **adverb**, "**monthly**" means once every month ("I get paid **monthly**").

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe something that happens once a month, and the adverb to describe doing something once a month.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**monthly** meeting," "**monthly** report," "**monthly** payment."
        * **(Adverb)** "paid **monthly**," "report **monthly**," "meet **monthly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have to pay my **monthly** rent on the first of the month."
            * "I get paid **monthly**, so I have to budget my money carefully."
            * "The company holds a **monthly** meeting to discuss new projects."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the company's **monthly** revenue has increased by 10%."
            * "The study examines how a person's **monthly** budget can affect their financial situation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of providing a **monthly** report on all new projects."
            * "The new law is designed to ensure that all employees are paid **monthly**."

**Synonyms**: Every month, once a month.

**Opposite words**: Weekly, annually, daily.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *monaþlic* (monthly).



.. _domestication:

================================================================================
Domestication
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dəˌmɛstɪˈkeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process of taming an animal or cultivating a plant to live in close association with humans.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "domestication" is the **process of adapting a wild plant or animal for human use**, often involving selective breeding.

**What it really means**: "**Domestication**" is a noun that refers to the process of taming an animal or cultivating a plant to live in close association with humans. It is the process of making a wild animal or plant a part of a person's life. For example, the **domestication** of dogs was a major step in the history of human civilization.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the process of taming an animal or cultivating a plant.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **domestication** of," "the **domestication** of plants," "the **domestication** of animals."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The **domestication** of cats was a very long process that took thousands of years."
            * "The **domestication** of plants led to the development of agriculture."
            * "The new animal is in the process of **domestication** and is getting used to living with humans."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the **domestication** of animals has had a profound effect on the history of human civilization."
            * "The study examines how the **domestication** of plants has affected the development of new technologies."
            * "The document highlights the importance of a clear and consistent process for the **domestication** of new animals."
            * "The new law is designed to promote the responsible **domestication** of wild animals."

**Synonyms**: Taming, cultivation, breeding, rearing, acculturation.

**Opposite words**: Wildness, ferality, savagery.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *domesticus* (of the house).



.. _inevitable:

================================================================================
Inevitable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈɛvɪtəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Certain to happen; unavoidable.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "inevitable" is to be **certain to happen and impossible to prevent**, regardless of any actions taken.

**What it really means**: "**Inevitable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is certain to happen and unavoidable. It suggests that a person cannot do anything to stop something from happening. For example, a person's death is **inevitable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is certain to happen and unavoidable.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **inevitable** outcome," "an **inevitable** result," "an **inevitable** conclusion."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The team's defeat was **inevitable** because they were not prepared."
            * "It was **inevitable** that the two of them would fall in love."
            * "The company's downfall was **inevitable** because of its poor management."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is an **inevitable** result of the government's long-term goals."
            * "The study examines how a person's **inevitable** death can affect their outlook on life."
            * "The document highlights the importance of preparing for the **inevitable** changes in the economy."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **inevitable** problems that will arise from the new technology."

**Synonyms**: Unavoidable, certain, sure, destined, fated.

**Opposite words**: Avoidable, preventable, uncertain, unlikely, doubtful.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *inevitabilis* (unavoidable).



.. _reversible:

================================================================================
Reversible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈvɜːsəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be turned the other way round or inside out.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "reversible" is to be **able to be changed back to a previous state or condition**, or to be used in two opposite ways.

**What it really means**: "**Reversible**" is an adjective used to describe something that can be turned the other way round or inside out. It can also be used to describe something that can be changed back to its original state. For example, a **reversible** jacket can be worn on both sides. A **reversible** process can be reversed.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that can be turned the other way round or changed back to its original state.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **reversible** jacket," "a **reversible** process," "a **reversible** change."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "This jacket is **reversible**, so you can wear it with either side facing out."
            * "The damage to the house is not **reversible**, so we have to rebuild it."
            * "The new drug is designed to have a **reversible** effect on the patient's condition."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the effects of climate change are not **reversible** and that we need to take action now."
            * "The study examines how a person's **reversible** decisions can affect their future."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent process for the **reversible** changes in the economy."
            * "The new law is designed to have a **reversible** effect on the country's population."

**Synonyms**: Convertible, interchangeable, changeable, adjustable.

**Opposite words**: Irreversible, permanent, unchangeable, fixed.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *revertere* (to turn back).



.. _redundant:

================================================================================
Redundant
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈdʌndənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not or no longer needed or useful.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "redundant" is to be **no longer necessary or useful**, often because something else serves the same purpose or the purpose itself is gone.

**What it really means**: "**Redundant**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not or no longer needed or useful. It can be used to describe a person who has lost their job because their position is no longer needed, or it can be used to describe a part of a machine that is not needed.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not or no longer needed or useful.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **redundant** worker," "a **redundant** feature," "a **redundant** phrase."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new technology has made my job **redundant**, so I was laid off."
            * "The new car has a **redundant** feature that I never use."
            * "The sentence was **redundant** because it said the same thing twice."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will make a number of government positions **redundant**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **redundant** skills can affect their ability to find a new job."
            * "The document highlights the importance of removing **redundant** information from a document."
            * "The new law is designed to make a number of old laws **redundant**."

**Synonyms**: Unnecessary, superfluous, excessive, surplus, superfluous.

**Opposite words**: Necessary, essential, vital, crucial, important.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *redundare* (to overflow).



.. _reservation:

================================================================================
Reservation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌrɛzəˈveɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An arrangement to have something (a room, a table, etc.) held for one's use at a later time.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "reservation" is an **act of keeping something aside for a specific person or use**, or a **feeling of doubt or hesitation**.

**What it really means**: "**Reservation**" is a noun that refers to an arrangement to have something, such as a room or a table, held for one's use at a later time. It can also refer to a feeling of doubt or hesitation about something. For example, a person can have a **reservation** about a new plan.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an arrangement to have something held, or a feeling of doubt or hesitation.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a dinner **reservation**," "a hotel **reservation**," "have a **reservation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I made a **reservation** for dinner at 8 pm."
            * "I have a **reservation** about the new plan; I don't think it will work."
            * "The new hotel is so popular that you have to make a **reservation** weeks in advance."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was met with a number of **reservations** from the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **reservations** about a new idea can affect their decision to accept it."
            * "The document highlights the importance of making a **reservation** for a flight in advance."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **reservations** of the public about the new policy."

**Synonyms**: Booking, appointment, doubt, hesitation, misgiving.

**Opposite words**: Cancellation, acceptance, agreement.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *reservare* (to keep back).



.. _dislike:

================================================================================
Dislike
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪsˈlaɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To feel distaste for or hostility toward; (Noun) A feeling of distaste or hostility.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **feel a sense of aversion or disapproval toward something**. The core meaning of the **noun** is the **feeling of not liking something**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**dislike**" means to feel distaste for or hostility toward something. It is the opposite of "like." As a **noun**, a "**dislike**" is a feeling of distaste or hostility.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe the act of feeling distaste for something, and the noun to refer to a feeling of distaste.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**dislike** a person," "**dislike** a food."
        * **(Noun)** "a strong **dislike**," "have a **dislike** for."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **dislike** the taste of olives."
            * "She has a strong **dislike** for people who are rude."
            * "I **dislike** the new rules that the company has put in place."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the public has a strong **dislike** for the new policy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **dislike** for a particular food can affect their diet."
            * "The document highlights the importance of understanding a person's **dislike** for a particular product."
            * "The new law is designed to address the public's **dislike** for the new tax."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Hate, detest, loathe, despise; (Noun) Hatred, aversion, distaste, antipathy.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Like, love, enjoy, admire; (Noun) Liking, love, enjoyment, admiration.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *lician* (to please).



.. _various:

================================================================================
Various
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvɛəriəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Of different kinds; diverse.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "various" is to be of a **number of different and distinct kinds**, suggesting diversity and a range of options.

**What it really means**: "**Various**" is an adjective used to describe something that is of different kinds or diverse. It suggests that there are many different types of something. For example, a store can sell **various** types of clothes.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is of different kinds or diverse.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**various** kinds," "**various** reasons," "**various** methods."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There are **various** reasons why I can't go to the party tonight."
            * "The store sells **various** kinds of books, from fiction to non-fiction."
            * "The new technology can be used for **various** purposes."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has been met with **various** reactions from the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **various** skills can affect their ability to find a new job."
            * "The document highlights the importance of using **various** methods to collect data."
            * "The new law is designed to address **various** problems that have been plaguing the country."

**Synonyms**: Different, diverse, numerous, multiple, assorted.

**Opposite words**: Same, identical, uniform, single, one.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *varius* (diverse).


.. _temporary:

================================================================================
Temporary
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtɛmpərəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Lasting for only a limited period of time; not permanent.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "temporary" is to be **lasting for a limited time**, indicating a non-permanent or transient state.

**What it really means**: "**Temporary**" is an adjective used to describe something that lasts for only a limited period of time. It suggests that something is not permanent and will change in the future. For example, a **temporary** solution is a solution that will only work for a short period of time.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that lasts for only a limited period of time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **temporary** solution," "a **temporary** job," "a **temporary** change."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a **temporary** job for the summer, but I'm looking for a permanent one."
            * "The new policy is a **temporary** solution to a bigger problem."
            * "The new building is a **temporary** structure that will be replaced in a few years."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **temporary** measure to address the country's economic problems."
            * "The study examines how a person's **temporary** change in diet can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan for a **temporary** change in the law."
            * "The new technology is a **temporary** fix for a problem that will require a more permanent solution."

**Synonyms**: Provisional, short-term, transient, momentary, fleeting.

**Opposite words**: Permanent, lasting, long-term, endless, eternal.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *temporarius* (of time).



.. _outdoor:

================================================================================
Outdoor
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈaʊtdɔːr/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Happening, existing, or used in the open air.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "outdoor" is to be **happening or existing in the open air**, outside of a building.

**What it really means**: "**Outdoor**" is an adjective used to describe something that happens, exists, or is used in the open air. It suggests that something is not happening inside a building. For example, an **outdoor** concert is a concert that is held outside.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happens, exists, or is used in the open air.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**outdoor** activities," "**outdoor** seating," "**outdoor** space."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We love to do **outdoor** activities like hiking and camping."
            * "The restaurant has a lot of **outdoor** seating for the summer."
            * "The new house has a lot of **outdoor** space, which is great for parties."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to promote **outdoor** activities for children."
            * "The study examines how a person's exposure to **outdoor** light can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan for the use of **outdoor** spaces in the city."
            * "The new technology is designed to be used in **outdoor** environments."

**Synonyms**: Open-air, outside, external, alfresco.

**Opposite words**: Indoor, inside, internal.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *ut* (out) and *dura* (door).



.. _close:

================================================================================
Close
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kloʊs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) A short distance away or apart in space or time; (Verb) To move so that an opening is covered.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **a short distance away in space or time**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **cover an opening or bring something to an end**.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**close**" means a short distance away or apart in space or time. As a **verb**, to "**close**" means to move so that an opening is covered or to bring something to an end.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe a short distance, and the verb to describe covering an opening or bringing something to an end.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**close** to," "a **close** friend," "a **close** call."
        * **(Verb)** "**close** the door," "**close** a meeting," "**close** a deal."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My house is **close** to the park, so I can walk there."
            * "I need to **close** the door because it's getting cold."
            * "The two of them are very **close** friends."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will bring the two countries **close** to a new agreement."
            * "The study examines how a person's **close** relationship with their family can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of bringing the meeting to a **close** in a timely manner."
            * "The new technology is designed to help companies **close** more deals and increase their revenue."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Near, next to, adjacent, intimate; (Verb) Shut, seal, end, finish, conclude.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Far, distant, remote; (Verb) Open, begin, start.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *clos* (closed).



.. _precaution:

================================================================================
Precaution
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈkɔːʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A measure taken in advance to prevent something dangerous, unpleasant, or inconvenient from happening.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "precaution" is an **action taken ahead of time to protect against a potential danger or problem**.

**What it really means**: A "**precaution**" is a noun that refers to a measure taken in advance to prevent something dangerous, unpleasant, or inconvenient from happening. It suggests that a person is taking action to stop a problem before it starts. For example, a person can take a **precaution** by wearing a seatbelt in a car.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a measure taken in advance to prevent something dangerous or unpleasant from happening.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "take a **precaution**," "as a **precaution**," "a **precaution** against."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "As a **precaution**, I always wear a helmet when I ride my bike."
            * "The company took a number of **precautions** to prevent the spread of the virus."
            * "The new law is a **precaution** against a future financial crisis."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **precaution** against a future war."
            * "The study examines how a person's **precautions** can affect their ability to avoid an accident."
            * "The document highlights the importance of taking **precautions** when working with dangerous chemicals."
            * "The new technology is a **precaution** against a future cyber attack."

**Synonyms**: Safeguard, defense, forethought, care, prudence.

**Opposite words**: Carelessness, recklessness, negligence, imprudence.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praecavere* (to take care beforehand).



.. _safety:

================================================================================
Safety
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈseɪfti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The condition of being protected from or unlikely to cause danger, risk, or injury.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "safety" is the **state of being protected from harm or danger**, a condition of security.

**What it really means**: "**Safety**" is a noun that refers to the condition of being protected from or unlikely to cause danger, risk, or injury. It suggests that a person is in a state of security and is not in danger. For example, a person's **safety** is a top priority for the government.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the condition of being protected from or unlikely to cause danger.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "personal **safety**," "for your **safety**," "in **safety**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We need to ensure the **safety** of all the children in the school."
            * "The government is trying to improve the **safety** of the roads."
            * "Your **safety** is the most important thing to me."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to improve the **safety** of workers in the industry."
            * "The study examines how a person's feeling of **safety** can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan to ensure the **safety** of all citizens."
            * "The new technology is designed to improve the **safety** of the entire country."

**Synonyms**: Security, protection, well-being, freedom from danger.

**Opposite words**: Danger, risk, peril, threat, harm.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *sauf* (safe).



.. _consistent:

================================================================================
Consistent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈsɪstənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Acting or done in the same way over time, especially so as to be fair or accurate.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "consistent" is to be **uniform or regular over time**, without any significant changes or variations.

**What it really means**: "**Consistent**" is an adjective used to describe something that is acting or done in the same way over time. It suggests that something is predictable and reliable. For example, a person's work can be **consistent** if it is always of the same high quality.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is acting or done in the same way over time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **consistent** effort," "**consistent** results," "**consistent** with."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **consistent** worker who always does a good job."
            * "The new policy is **consistent** with the company's long-term goals."
            * "We need to be **consistent** with our training to see results."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **consistent** with the government's long-term goals."
            * "The study examines how a person's **consistent** diet can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a **consistent** approach to a new problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to provide **consistent** and reliable results."

**Synonyms**: Steady, constant, regular, uniform, reliable.

**Opposite words**: Inconsistent, irregular, unstable, unreliable, erratic.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *consistere* (to stand together).



.. _expense:

================================================================================
Expense
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈspɛns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The cost incurred in or required for something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "expense" is the **cost or outlay of money**, time, or effort required to achieve something.

**What it really means**: "**Expense**" is a noun that refers to the cost incurred in or required for something. It suggests that a person has to spend money to get something. For example, the **expense** of a new car can be very high.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the cost incurred in or required for something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "at the **expense** of," "a great **expense**," "a necessary **expense**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new car was a great **expense**, but I needed it for my job."
            * "The company is trying to cut down on its **expenses** to save money."
            * "The new project was a necessary **expense** for the company's future."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will come at a great **expense** to the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **expenses** can affect their financial situation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of keeping a clear record of all business **expenses**."
            * "The new technology is designed to reduce the **expense** of producing goods."

**Synonyms**: Cost, charge, price, outlay, expenditure.

**Opposite words**: Income, profit, revenue, savings.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *expendere* (to weigh out).



.. _constantly:

================================================================================
Constantly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɒnstəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Continuously over a period of time; always.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "constantly" is to be **happening all the time or very frequently**, without interruption.

**What it really means**: "**Constantly**" is an adverb used to describe something that happens continuously over a period of time. It suggests that something is always happening. For example, the phone is **constantly** ringing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happens continuously over a period of time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**constantly** changing," "**constantly** complaining," "**constantly** working."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The weather is **constantly** changing in this area."
            * "She is **constantly** complaining about her job, but she never quits."
            * "He is **constantly** working on new projects and never takes a break."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **constantly** being debated in parliament."
            * "The study examines how a person's **constantly** changing diet can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of **constantly** monitoring the new technology for any problems."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **constantly** changing needs of the country."

**Synonyms**: Always, continually, perpetually, regularly, incessantly.

**Opposite words**: Rarely, seldom, occasionally, never.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *constans* (standing firm).



.. _forcefully:

================================================================================
Forcefully
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɔːsfl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that uses force or strength.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "forcefully" is to be **with great physical or emotional strength**, often in an assertive or powerful manner.

**What it really means**: "**Forcefully**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done with a lot of force or strength. It suggests that a person is using their power to do something. For example, a person can **forcefully** open a door or **forcefully** make a point in a debate.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with a lot of force or strength.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**forcefully** open," "**forcefully** argue," "**forcefully** demand."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **forcefully** opened the door and walked inside."
            * "She **forcefully** argued her point in the debate and won."
            * "The government **forcefully** demanded that the company change its policy."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was **forcefully** opposed by the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **forcefully** argue their point can affect their success in a debate."
            * "The document highlights the importance of **forcefully** addressing the new problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to **forcefully** address the issue of crime."

**Synonyms**: Powerfully, strongly, vigorously, aggressively, emphatically.

**Opposite words**: Gently, softly, weakly, mildly, passively.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *force* (strength, power).



.. _comment:

================================================================================
Comment
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɒmɛnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A spoken or written remark expressing an opinion or reaction; (Verb) To express an opinion or reaction.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **remark that expresses an opinion or reaction**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **express an opinion or reaction**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**comment**" is a spoken or written remark that expresses an opinion or a reaction. As a **verb**, to "**comment**" means to express an opinion or a reaction.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a spoken or written remark, and the verb to describe expressing an opinion.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a brief **comment**," "no **comment**," "a positive **comment**."
        * **(Verb)** "**comment** on," "**comment** about."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I made a **comment** on the news article and got a lot of replies."
            * "He **commented** on my new hairstyle and said he liked it."
            * "I don't have any **comment** on the matter, as I don't know enough about it."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy received a number of positive **comments** from the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **comment** on a social media post can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of providing a **comment** on the new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **comment** on the new products."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Remark, observation, statement, feedback; (Verb) Remark, observe, state, say.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Silence, quiet; (Verb) Keep quiet, be silent.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *commentum* (an invention, a commentary).



.. _absorption:

================================================================================
Absorption
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əbˈsɔːrpʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process of a substance being taken in by another substance.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "absorption" is the **process of a substance being taken in and assimilated by another substance** or the state of being deeply engrossed in something.

**What it really means**: "**Absorption**" is a noun that refers to the process of a substance being taken in by another substance. It can also refer to the process of a person being completely engrossed in something. For example, a sponge has a high rate of water **absorption**. A person's **absorption** in a book means they are completely focused on it.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the process of a substance being taken in, or the process of a person being completely engrossed in something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "water **absorption**," "the **absorption** of a new idea," "deep in **absorption**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new plant has a high rate of water **absorption**, which is good for the soil."
            * "I was so deep in **absorption** that I didn't notice the time passing."
            * "The new product is designed to have a high rate of sound **absorption**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to promote the **absorption** of new ideas into the economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **absorption** in a new task can affect their ability to learn."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent process for the **absorption** of new employees."
            * "The new technology is designed to have a high rate of energy **absorption**."

**Synonyms**: Assimilation, soaking up, engrossment, immersion.

**Opposite words**: Emission, discharge, release, distraction, rejection.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *absorbere* (to swallow up).



.. _happens:

================================================================================
Happens
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhæpənz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To take place; occur.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "happens" is to **occur or take place**, indicating that an event is in progress or has come to pass.

**What it really means**: "**Happens**" is a verb that means to take place or occur. It is used to describe something that is taking place or occurring. For example, a lot of things can **happen** in a day.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is taking place or occurring.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "what **happens**," "it **happens**," "when it **happens**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "A lot of things can **happen** in a day, so you need to be ready for anything."
            * "I don't know what **happens** next, so I'm just going to wait and see."
            * "It **happens** all the time, so don't worry about it too much."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will change what **happens** to the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's decision can affect what **happens** in their life."
            * "The document highlights the importance of being prepared for what **happens** in the future."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent a lot of bad things from **happening** in the country."

**Synonyms**: Occurs, takes place, arises, ensues, transpires.

**Opposite words**: Stops, ends, ceases, prevents.

**Where it comes from**: From Old Norse *happ* (chance).



.. _inform:

================================================================================
Inform
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈfɔːrm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To give (someone) facts or information.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "inform" is to **provide facts or knowledge to someone**, thereby shaping their understanding or awareness.

**What it really means**: To "**inform**" means to give someone facts or information. It is the act of telling someone something that they don't know. For example, a person can **inform** their boss that they are leaving the company.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of giving someone facts or information.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**inform** a person," "**inform** about," "**inform** on."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **inform** my boss that I am leaving for the day."
            * "The news is designed to **inform** people about what is happening in the world."
            * "I was **informed** that the meeting has been canceled."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **inform** the public about the new laws."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **inform** themselves can affect their decision-making."
            * "The document highlights the importance of being **informed** about the new changes in the law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **inform** people about the new products that are available."

**Synonyms**: Tell, notify, advise, update, educate.

**Opposite words**: Misinform, mislead, deceive, conceal, hide.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *informare* (to shape, to instruct).



.. _transparent:

================================================================================
Transparent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/trænsˈpærənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Allowing light to pass through so that objects behind can be distinctly seen.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "transparent" is to be **easily seen through** (literally or figuratively), suggesting clarity and a lack of concealment.

**What it really means**: "**Transparent**" is an adjective used to describe something that allows light to pass through so that objects behind can be distinctly seen. It can also be used to describe something that is easy to understand and has nothing to hide. For example, a **transparent** government is a government that is open and honest with its people.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that allows light to pass through or something that is easy to understand.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **transparent** window," "a **transparent** process," "a **transparent** government."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new window is so **transparent** that it's hard to tell if it's there."
            * "The company has a very **transparent** process for hiring new employees."
            * "The new law is designed to make the government more **transparent** to the public."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to create a more **transparent** and accountable government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **transparent** communication can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a **transparent** process for all business transactions."
            * "The new technology is designed to make the entire process more **transparent** and efficient."

**Synonyms**: Clear, see-through, obvious, open, honest.

**Opposite words**: Opaque, cloudy, secretive, dishonest, hidden.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *transparere* (to be visible through).



.. _inferiority:

================================================================================
Inferiority
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˌfɪəriˈɒrɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being lower in status or quality than another or others.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "inferiority" is the **state of being lower in quality, status, or value** than something else.

**What it really means**: "**Inferiority**" is a noun that refers to the state of being lower in status or quality than another or others. It can be a person's feeling of **inferiority** to another person or a product's **inferiority** to another product.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of being lower in status or quality than another or others.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a feeling of **inferiority**," "a sense of **inferiority**," "the **inferiority** of a product."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a strong sense of **inferiority** because he was not able to finish college."
            * "The new product's **inferiority** to the old one was very clear."
            * "I have a feeling of **inferiority** when I'm around a lot of successful people."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **inferiority** of the country's educational system."
            * "The study examines how a person's feeling of **inferiority** can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not allowing a feeling of **inferiority** to affect a person's decision-making."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **inferiority** of the country's infrastructure."

**Synonyms**: Subordination, secondariness, lowliness, mediocrity, inadequacy.

**Opposite words**: Superiority, dominance, excellence, quality, supremacy.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *inferior* (lower).



.. _validation:

================================================================================
Validation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌvælɪˈdeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of proving or declaring something valid.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "validation" is the **act of confirming or verifying that something is true, correct, or acceptable**.

**What it really means**: "**Validation**" is a noun that refers to the action of proving or declaring something valid. It can be the **validation** of a new idea or a new product, or it can be a person's feeling of **validation** from their friends.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of proving or declaring something valid.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "seek **validation**," "give **validation**," "a form of **validation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need some **validation** from my boss that I'm doing a good job."
            * "The new product needs to go through a lot of **validation** before it can be sold to the public."
            * "She needs a lot of **validation** from her friends to feel good about herself."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is in need of **validation** from the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **validation** from their peers can affect their self-esteem."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent process for the **validation** of new ideas."
            * "The new technology is in need of **validation** from the government before it can be used."

**Synonyms**: Confirmation, approval, verification, authentication, endorsement.

**Opposite words**: Invalidity, rejection, disapproval, refutation, denial.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *validus* (strong).



.. _habitable:

================================================================================
Habitable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhæbɪtəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Suitable or good enough to live in.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "habitable" is to be **capable of supporting life or being lived in**, indicating a suitability for a dwelling.

**What it really means**: "**Habitable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is suitable or good enough to live in. It suggests that a place is safe and comfortable for a person to live in. For example, a new house can be **habitable** if it has all the necessary amenities.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is suitable or good enough to live in.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **habitable** planet," "a **habitable** house," "a **habitable** room."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new house is not **habitable** yet because it is still under construction."
            * "The new planet is **habitable**, so we can move there in the future."
            * "The room is not **habitable** because the roof is leaking."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to make the country's housing more **habitable**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **habitable** environment can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan for making a new planet **habitable**."
            * "The new technology is designed to make a person's home more **habitable** and comfortable."

**Synonyms**: Livable, inhabitable, fit for habitation, suitable for living.

**Opposite words**: Uninhabitable, unlivable, unsuitable, unfit for living.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *habitare* (to live in).



.. _severely:

================================================================================
Severely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/sɪˈvɪərli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a very great or intense degree.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "severely" is to be **to a very great or intense degree**, often in a way that is serious or critical.

**What it really means**: "**Severely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to a very great or intense degree. It suggests that something is very serious or critical. For example, a person can be **severely** injured in an accident, or a person can be **severely** punished for a crime.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to a very great or intense degree.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**severely** injured," "**severely** damaged," "**severely** punished."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was **severely** injured in the car accident and had to go to the hospital."
            * "The new building was **severely** damaged in the hurricane."
            * "The new laws are designed to **severely** punish people who break the law."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will **severely** affect the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **severely** unhealthy diet can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of addressing a person's **severely** low self-esteem."
            * "The new technology is designed to **severely** reduce the amount of pollution in the environment."

**Synonyms**: Greatly, intensely, acutely, harshly, strictly.

**Opposite words**: Slightly, mildly, gently, lightly, moderately.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *severus* (serious, strict).



.. _crucial:

================================================================================
Crucial
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkruːʃəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Decisive or critical, especially in the success or failure of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "crucial" is to be **of great importance or a pivotal point**, where the outcome of something depends on it.

**What it really means**: "**Crucial**" is an adjective used to describe something that is decisive or critical. It suggests that something is very important and can determine the success or failure of something. For example, a person's decision can be **crucial** to the outcome of a project.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is decisive or critical.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **crucial** decision," "a **crucial** moment," "a **crucial** role."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "This is a **crucial** moment in our lives, so we need to make the right decision."
            * "He played a **crucial** role in the team's success."
            * "The new policy is a **crucial** step in addressing the country's problems."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **crucial** step in addressing the country's economic crisis."
            * "The study examines how a person's **crucial** decisions can affect their long-term happiness."
            * "The document highlights the importance of making a **crucial** decision in a timely manner."
            * "The new technology is a **crucial** step in the development of a new product."

**Synonyms**: Critical, vital, essential, pivotal, decisive.

**Opposite words**: Insignificant, unimportant, trivial, minor, non-essential.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *crux* (cross, a reference to a cross-shaped road sign).



.. _extravagantly:

================================================================================
Extravagantly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈstrævəɡəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is lacking in restraint in spending money or using resources.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "extravagantly" is to be **in a way that is beyond what is reasonable or necessary**, often involving excessive spending or showiness.

**What it really means**: "**Extravagantly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is lacking in restraint in spending money or using resources. It suggests that a person is spending too much money or is using too many resources. For example, a person can live **extravagantly** if they spend a lot of money on luxury items.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is lacking in restraint in spending money or using resources.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "live **extravagantly**," "spend **extravagantly**," "dress **extravagantly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She lives **extravagantly** and spends a lot of money on clothes and shoes."
            * "The new car was **extravagantly** priced, so I couldn't afford it."
            * "He dressed **extravagantly** for the party, and everyone noticed him."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to prevent the government from spending **extravagantly** on new projects."
            * "The study examines how a person's **extravagantly** spending habits can affect their financial situation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not spending **extravagantly** on unnecessary things."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent companies from **extravagantly** using the country's natural resources."

**Synonyms**: Lavishly, excessively, wastefully, immoderately, profusely.

**Opposite words**: Economically, frugally, modestly, sparingly, simply.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *extra* (outside) and *vagari* (to wander).



.. _cultivate:

================================================================================
Cultivate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkʌltɪveɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To prepare and use (land) for crops or gardening.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "cultivate" is to **prepare and nurture something** to promote its growth, whether it's a crop, a skill, or a relationship.

**What it really means**: To "**cultivate**" means to prepare and use land for crops or gardening. It can also mean to try to acquire or develop a quality, sentiment, or skill. For example, a person can **cultivate** a new skill or **cultivate** a new relationship.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of preparing and using land for crops, or to try to acquire or develop a quality.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**cultivate** a garden," "**cultivate** a skill," "**cultivate** a relationship."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I want to **cultivate** a new garden in my backyard."
            * "He is trying to **cultivate** his public speaking skills."
            * "We need to **cultivate** a good relationship with our new neighbors."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help farmers **cultivate** new crops."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **cultivate** new skills can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan to **cultivate** new relationships with other countries."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **cultivate** their own food at home."

**Synonyms**: Grow, nurture, develop, foster, acquire.

**Opposite words**: Neglect, abandon, ignore, destroy, stunt.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *cultivare* (to till, to cultivate).



.. _neglect:

================================================================================
Neglect
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/nɪˈɡlɛkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To fail to care for properly; (Noun) The state of being uncared for.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **fail to give proper care or attention to something**. The core meaning of the **noun** is the **state of being uncared for or overlooked**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**neglect**" means to fail to care for something properly. As a **noun**, "**neglect**" is the state of being uncared for.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe the act of failing to care for something, and the noun to refer to the state of being uncared for.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**neglect** a child," "**neglect** a duty," "**neglect** a task."
        * **(Noun)** "a state of **neglect**," "child **neglect**," "animal **neglect**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **neglected** his duties at work and was fired."
            * "The new house was in a state of **neglect** and needed a lot of repairs."
            * "I don't want to **neglect** my friends, so I always make time for them."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **neglect** of the country's infrastructure."
            * "The study examines how a person's **neglect** of their health can affect their long-term well-being."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not **neglecting** one's responsibilities to the community."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent the **neglect** of children in the country."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Ignore, disregard, overlook, abandon; (Noun) Inattention, disregard, carelessness, abandonment.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Care for, attend to, cherish, nurture; (Noun) Care, attention, diligence, concern.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *negligere* (to disregard, to neglect).



.. _include:

================================================================================
Include
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈkluːd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To comprise or contain as part of a whole.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "include" is to **contain or have something as a part of a larger whole**.

**What it really means**: To "**include**" means to comprise or contain as part of a whole. It is the act of making something a part of a larger group or whole. For example, a group of people can **include** a new member, or a document can **include** a new section.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of comprising or containing as part of a whole.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**include** in," "**include** a person," "**include** a section."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The price of the ticket **includes** a free meal and a drink."
            * "I want to **include** my friends in my new plan."
            * "The new book will **include** a new chapter on the history of the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will **include** a number of new laws."
            * "The study examines how a person's diet can **include** a variety of different foods."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan that will **include** all the necessary steps."
            * "The new technology is designed to **include** a number of new features."

**Synonyms**: Contain, comprise, involve, encompass, incorporate.

**Opposite words**: Exclude, omit, leave out, disregard, remove.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *includere* (to shut in).



.. _superiority:

================================================================================
Superiority
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/suːˌpɪəriˈɒrɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being superior to someone or something else.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "superiority" is the **state of being higher in quality, status, or value** than something else.

**What it really means**: "**Superiority**" is a noun that refers to the state of being superior to someone or something else. It can be a person's feeling of **superiority** to another person or a product's **superiority** to another product.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of being superior to someone or something else.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a feeling of **superiority**," "a sense of **superiority**," "the **superiority** of a product."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a strong sense of **superiority** because he is very rich."
            * "The new product's **superiority** to the old one was very clear."
            * "I have a feeling of **superiority** when I'm around a lot of people who are not as successful as I am."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **superiority** of the country's educational system."
            * "The study examines how a person's feeling of **superiority** can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not allowing a feeling of **superiority** to affect a person's decision-making."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **superiority** of the country's infrastructure."

**Synonyms**: Dominance, excellence, supremacy, quality, advantage.

**Opposite words**: Inferiority, subordination, lowliness, mediocrity, inadequacy.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *superior* (higher).



.. _similarly:

================================================================================
Similarly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɪmɪləli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a similar way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "similarly" is to be **in a comparable or like manner**, indicating a parallel action or state.

**What it really means**: "**Similarly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a similar way. It suggests that two things are alike in some way. For example, a person can **similarly** solve a problem in the same way as another person.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a similar way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**similarly**, I think," "and **similarly**," "**similarly** to."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He solved the problem, and I **similarly** solved it in the same way."
            * "The two of them are very similar, and **similarly** their tastes in music are the same."
            * "The new policy is **similarly** to the old one, but with a few changes."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **similarly** to the old one in its approach to the problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to solve a problem can be **similarly** to another person's ability."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan, and **similarly** a clear and consistent approach to the problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to be **similarly** to the old one, but with a few new features."

**Synonyms**: Likewise, in a similar fashion, equally, in the same way.

**Opposite words**: Differently, dissimilarly, uniquely, contrarily.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *similis* (like).



.. _irrationally:

================================================================================
Irrationally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈræʃənəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is not based on or guided by reason.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "irrationally" is to be **in a way that is not based on reason or logic**, often driven by emotion or whim.

**What it really means**: "**Irrationally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is not based on or guided by reason. It suggests that a person is acting on their emotions rather than on logic. For example, a person can **irrationally** be afraid of a spider.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is not based on or guided by reason.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "act **irrationally**," "behave **irrationally**," "think **irrationally**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "She was so angry that she acted **irrationally** and said some things she later regretted."
            * "He is **irrationally** afraid of spiders, even though they are harmless."
            * "The new policy was **irrationally** designed and will not work."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was **irrationally** put in place by the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to think **irrationally** can affect their decision-making."
            * "The document highlights the importance of not acting **irrationally** when in a state of crisis."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent people from **irrationally** acting in a dangerous way."

**Synonyms**: Unreasonably, illogically, foolishly, senselessly, absurdly.

**Opposite words**: Rationally, logically, reasonably, sensibly, wisely.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *irrationalis* (not rational).



.. _firmly:

================================================================================
Firmly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɜːmli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is strong and sure.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "firmly" is to be **with a strong, resolute, and unwavering grip or conviction**.

**What it really means**: "**Firmly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is strong and sure. It suggests that a person is not going to change their mind or their position. For example, a person can **firmly** hold a belief or **firmly** hold a position in a debate.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is strong and sure.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**firmly** believe," "**firmly** hold," "**firmly** planted."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **firmly** believes that the new policy will not work."
            * "I **firmly** held the rope so that I wouldn't fall."
            * "He stood **firmly** on his principles and would not be moved."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **firmly** supported by the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **firmly** held beliefs can affect their decision-making."
            * "The document highlights the importance of **firmly** addressing the new problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to **firmly** establish the new government's power."

**Synonyms**: Steadfastly, resolutely, securely, strongly, determinedly.

**Opposite words**: Weakly, insecurely, loosely, hesitantly, uncertainly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *firmian* (to make firm).



.. _investigate:

================================================================================
Investigate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈvɛstɪɡeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To carry out a systematic or formal inquiry to discover and examine the facts of an incident, allegation, etc.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "investigate" is to **conduct a systematic search or examination to uncover facts or discover the truth**.

**What it really means**: To "**investigate**" means to carry out a systematic or formal inquiry to discover and examine the facts of an incident. It is the act of trying to find out what happened. For example, the police can **investigate** a crime.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of carrying out a systematic or formal inquiry to discover and examine the facts.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**investigate** a crime," "**investigate** a claim," "**investigate** a matter."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The police are **investigating** the crime and will let us know what they find."
            * "I need to **investigate** the new company before I invest in it."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the government **investigate** the new problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the government **investigate** the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **investigate** a new idea can affect their decision-making."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent process for the **investigation** of a new claim."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the government **investigate** the new problems in the country."

**Synonyms**: Examine, explore, research, inquire into, look into.

**Opposite words**: Ignore, disregard, overlook, neglect.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *investigare* (to track down).



.. _exposure:

================================================================================
Exposure
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈspoʊʒər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being exposed to contact with something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "exposure" is the **state of being brought into contact with something**, often something new, unknown, or potentially harmful.

**What it really means**: "**Exposure**" is a noun that refers to the state of being exposed to contact with something. It can be a person's **exposure** to a new idea or a person's **exposure** to a dangerous chemical.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of being exposed to contact with something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "**exposure** to," "media **exposure**," "public **exposure**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy will give the company a lot of media **exposure**."
            * "He had a lot of **exposure** to a new culture when he traveled abroad."
            * "The new law is designed to protect people from **exposure** to dangerous chemicals."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to give the company a lot of **exposure** to a new market."
            * "The study examines how a person's **exposure** to a new idea can affect their beliefs."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to protect people from **exposure** to a dangerous environment."
            * "The new technology is designed to give the company a lot of **exposure** to a new market."

**Synonyms**: Contact, vulnerability, revelation, publicity, disclosure.

**Opposite words**: Concealment, protection, secrecy, hiddenness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *exponere* (to put out, to expose).



.. _public:

================================================================================
Public
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpʌblɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Of or concerning the people as a whole; (Noun) The community as a whole.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **related to the people as a whole**, not just a private group. The core meaning of the **noun** is the **entire community or a general body of people**.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**public**" describes something of or concerning the people as a whole. As a **noun**, the "**public**" refers to the community as a whole.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe something that concerns all people, and the noun to refer to the community as a whole.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**public** opinion," "**public** transport," "**public** speaking."
        * **(Noun)** "the general **public**," "in **public**," "the **public**'s opinion."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is a matter of **public** interest."
            * "The new building is open to the general **public**."
            * "He is very good at **public** speaking."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has been met with a number of **public** protests."
            * "The study examines how a person's **public** speaking skills can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the needs of the **public**."
            * "The new law is designed to improve the **public**'s access to new information."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) General, communal, societal, open; (Noun) Community, populace, populace, people.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Private, personal, exclusive; (Noun) Individual, private citizen.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *publicus* (of the people).



.. _relief:

================================================================================
Relief
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈliːf/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A feeling of reassurance and relaxation following the release from anxiety or distress.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "relief" is the **alleviation of pain, distress, or anxiety**, bringing a sense of comfort or ease.

**What it really means**: "**Relief**" is a noun that refers to a feeling of reassurance and relaxation following the release from anxiety or distress. It can also refer to the help or assistance that is given to people in need.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a feeling of reassurance and relaxation, or the help that is given to people in need.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a sense of **relief**," "to your **relief**," "disaster **relief**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I felt a great sense of **relief** when I found my keys."
            * "The new policy is a form of tax **relief** for the poor."
            * "The new medicine will provide some **relief** from the pain."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a form of **relief** for the country's economic problems."
            * "The study examines how a person's feeling of **relief** can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of providing **relief** to people who are in need."
            * "The new law is designed to provide a form of **relief** to the country's population."

**Synonyms**: Comfort, ease, succor, assistance, aid, alleviation.

**Opposite words**: Distress, pain, anxiety, discomfort, burden.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *relever* (to raise up).



.. _fluctuation:

================================================================================
Fluctuation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌflʌktʃuˈeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An irregular rising and falling in number or amount; a variation.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "fluctuation" is an **irregular and unpredictable change in level, quantity, or value**, indicating instability.

**What it really means**: "**Fluctuation**" is a noun that refers to an irregular rising and falling in number or amount. It suggests that something is not stable and is changing all the time. For example, the stock market can have a lot of **fluctuations**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an irregular rising and falling in number or amount.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "price **fluctuation**," "currency **fluctuation**," "a **fluctuation** in."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The stock market has had a lot of **fluctuations** recently, so I'm not sure if I should invest."
            * "The price of gas has had a lot of **fluctuations** recently."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **fluctuations** in the country's economy."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **fluctuations** in the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **fluctuation** in mood can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **fluctuations** in the price of oil."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **fluctuations** in the country's weather."

**Synonyms**: Variation, oscillation, instability, vacillation, change.

**Opposite words**: Stability, consistency, steadiness, uniformity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *fluctuare* (to wave, to be in constant motion).



.. _virtual:

================================================================================
Virtual
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvɜːrtʃuəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not physically existing but made to appear to do so by a computer.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "virtual" is to be **nearly or almost a particular thing**, often existing as a computer-generated simulation rather than in physical reality.

**What it really means**: "**Virtual**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not physically existing but is made to appear to do so by a computer. It can also be used to describe something that is almost or very nearly a particular thing. For example, a **virtual** reality game is a game that is not real, but it seems to be.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not physically existing but is made to appear to do so by a computer, or something that is almost a particular thing.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**virtual** reality," "**virtual** meeting," "**virtual** tour."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I had a **virtual** meeting with my boss, and it was great."
            * "The new game is a **virtual** reality game, and it's so much fun."
            * "The new technology is a **virtual** tour of the new building."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to promote the use of **virtual** education in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **virtual** social connections can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the use of **virtual** meetings."
            * "The new technology is designed to create a **virtual** world for people to explore."

**Synonyms**: Simulated, digital, computer-generated, theoretical.

**Opposite words**: Real, physical, tangible, actual, genuine.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *virtus* (strength, virtue).



.. _adjustment:

================================================================================
Adjustment
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈdʒʌstmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A small alteration or movement made to achieve a desired fit, appearance, or result.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "adjustment" is a **small change or modification made to fit a new situation or achieve a better result**.

**What it really means**: An "**adjustment**" is a noun that refers to a small alteration or movement made to achieve a desired fit, appearance, or result. It can be a person's **adjustment** to a new environment or a person's **adjustment** to a new policy.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a small alteration or movement made to achieve a desired fit, appearance, or result.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make an **adjustment**," "a small **adjustment**," "a period of **adjustment**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to make a small **adjustment** to the settings on my computer."
            * "The new policy is a small **adjustment** to the old one."
            * "The new employee needs a period of **adjustment** to get used to the new company."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will require a number of **adjustments** to the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **adjustment** to a new environment can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of making a small **adjustment** to the new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to make a number of **adjustments** to the new product."

**Synonyms**: Modification, alteration, change, correction, adaptation.

**Opposite words**: Stability, constancy, rigidity, permanence.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *ajuster* (to adjust).



.. _requirement:

================================================================================
Requirement
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈkwaɪərmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A thing that is needed or wanted.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "requirement" is a **thing that is needed or compulsory**, often as a condition for something else to happen.

**What it really means**: A "**requirement**" is a noun that refers to a thing that is needed or wanted. It can be a person's **requirement** for a new job or a company's **requirement** for a new product.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a thing that is needed or wanted.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "meet a **requirement**," "a legal **requirement**," "a necessary **requirement**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new job has a number of **requirements** that I don't have."
            * "The new law is a legal **requirement** for all companies."
            * "The new product has a number of **requirements** that I can't meet."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will require a number of **requirements** from the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **requirements** for a new job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to meet the new **requirements** of the law."
            * "The new technology is designed to meet the **requirements** of the new product."

**Synonyms**: Need, necessity, prerequisite, essential, condition.

**Opposite words**: Option, choice, preference, superfluity.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *requerir* (to ask for).

.. _recognition:

================================================================================
Recognition
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌrɛkəɡˈnɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action or process of recognizing or being recognized.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**recognition**" is the **act of identifying or acknowledging someone or something** based on previous knowledge or experience. It can also mean to show appreciation for something.

**What it really means**: "**Recognition**" is a noun that refers to the action or process of recognizing or being recognized. It can be a person's **recognition** of a face or a person's **recognition** of an achievement.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action or process of recognizing or being recognized.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "**recognition** of a problem," "a lack of **recognition**," "social **recognition**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He received a lot of **recognition** for his work on the project."
            * "The new policy is a **recognition** of the country's economic problems."
            * "I don't need any **recognition** for what I did, I just want to help."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **recognition** of the country's need for change."
            * "The study examines how a person's **recognition** of their own weaknesses can affect their ability to succeed."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear process for the **recognition** of a new country."
            * "The new technology is a **recognition** of the country's need for new solutions to old problems."

**Synonyms**: Identification, acknowledgment, appreciation, awareness, fame.

**Opposite words**: Anonymity, disregard, ignorance, oversight, oblivion.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *recognoscere* (to know again).



.. _decide:

================================================================================
Decide
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈsaɪd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To make a choice from a number of alternatives.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**decide**" is to **make a definite choice or judgment** after considering all options, thereby bringing a matter to a close.

**What it really means**: To "**decide**" means to make a choice from a number of alternatives. It is the act of choosing what to do after thinking about all the options. For example, a person can **decide** to go to a new school or a person can **decide** to buy a new car.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of making a choice from a number of alternatives.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**decide** on," "**decide** to," "**decide** against."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **decide** what to have for dinner, but I can't make up my mind."
            * "He **decided** to go to the new school because it was closer to his house."
            * "The company **decided** against the new policy because it was too expensive."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was **decided** after a long period of debate."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **decide** can affect their long-term happiness."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear process for the government to **decide** on new laws."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **decide** on the best product for them."

**Synonyms**: Choose, determine, settle, resolve, conclude.

**Opposite words**: Waver, hesitate, postpone, delay.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *decidere* (to cut off, to determine).



.. _corrupt:

================================================================================
Corrupt
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˈrʌpt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Having or showing a willingness to act dishonestly in return for money or personal gain; (Verb) To cause to become or to be immoral or dishonest.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **dishonest or immoral**, often for personal gain. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **cause someone or something to become dishonest or immoral**.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**corrupt**" describes someone or something that is willing to act dishonestly in return for money or personal gain. As a **verb**, to "**corrupt**" means to cause someone or something to become immoral or dishonest.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe a person or a thing that is dishonest or immoral, and the verb to describe the act of causing someone or something to become dishonest or immoral.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**corrupt** politician," "**corrupt** system," "**corrupt** data."
        * **(Verb)** "**corrupt** a person," "**corrupt** a system," "**corrupt** a file."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new politician is very **corrupt**, and he only cares about money."
            * "The new law is designed to help fight against a **corrupt** system."
            * "The new file is **corrupt** and I can't open it."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to fight against a **corrupt** government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **corrupt** behavior can affect their reputation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to prevent the new system from becoming **corrupt**."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent a person's data from being **corrupt**."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Dishonest, crooked, venal, immoral; (Verb) Taint, debase, pervert, bribe.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Honest, moral, ethical, trustworthy; (Verb) Purify, improve, uplift, reform.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *corrumpere* (to destroy, to corrupt).



.. _implication:

================================================================================
Implication
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪmplɪˈkeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The conclusion that can be drawn from something although it is not explicitly stated.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**implication**" is an **indirect suggestion or consequence** that is not stated outright but is understood.

**What it really means**: An "**implication**" is a noun that refers to the conclusion that can be drawn from something although it is not explicitly stated. It suggests that a person has to read between the lines to understand the true meaning of something. For example, a person's silence can have a lot of **implications**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the conclusion that can be drawn from something although it is not explicitly stated.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **implication** of," "by **implication**," "a negative **implication**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy has a lot of negative **implications** for the country's economy."
            * "I don't know what the **implication** of his words are, but I think he is trying to tell me something."
            * "The new law is a **implication** of the government's desire to change the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has a lot of negative **implications** for the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **implications** can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the **implication** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to have a lot of negative **implications** for the country's economy."

**Synonyms**: Suggestion, inference, consequence, ramification, insinuation.

**Opposite words**: Statement, declaration, explicit meaning, direct consequence.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *implicare* (to enfold, to involve).



.. _regular:

================================================================================
Regular
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrɛɡjələr/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Arranged in or constituting a constant or definite pattern, especially with the same space between individual items.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**regular**" is to be **consistent, uniform, or happening at fixed intervals**, indicating a predictable pattern.

**What it really means**: "**Regular**" is an adjective used to describe something that is arranged in a constant or definite pattern. It suggests that something is predictable and reliable. For example, a person's heartbeat can be **regular**, or a person's work can be **regular**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is arranged in a constant or definite pattern.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**regular** exercise," "**regular** meetings," "**regular** basis."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a **regular** heartbeat, so he is not in danger."
            * "We have **regular** meetings to discuss the new project."
            * "I go to the gym on a **regular** basis."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to promote a **regular** schedule for all employees."
            * "The study examines how a person's **regular** exercise can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a **regular** approach to a new problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to provide **regular** and reliable results."

**Synonyms**: Consistent, uniform, steady, constant, orderly.

**Opposite words**: Irregular, inconsistent, erratic, uneven, sporadic.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *regularis* (according to rule).



.. _resilience:

================================================================================
Resilience
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈzɪliəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The capacity to recover quickly from difficulties; toughness.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**resilience**" is the **ability to recover or bounce back from adversity, hardship, or change**.

**What it really means**: "**Resilience**" is a noun that refers to the capacity to recover quickly from difficulties. It suggests that a person is tough and can handle a lot of stress. For example, a person's **resilience** can be seen in their ability to overcome a difficult situation.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the capacity to recover quickly from difficulties.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "mental **resilience**," "emotional **resilience**," "a lack of **resilience**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a lot of mental **resilience**, and he was able to overcome his problems."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country build its economic **resilience**."
            * "The new team has a lot of **resilience**, and they were able to win the game."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to build the country's economic **resilience**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **resilience** can affect their ability to succeed in a new environment."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan to build the **resilience** of the country's infrastructure."
            * "The new technology is designed to help a person build their **resilience** to stress."

**Synonyms**: Toughness, durability, flexibility, elasticity, strength.

**Opposite words**: Fragility, weakness, inflexibility, vulnerability.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *resilire* (to jump back).



.. _weakness:

================================================================================
Weakness
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈwiːknəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state or condition of lacking strength.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**weakness**" is a **lack of strength, power, or effectiveness**, either physically or as a flaw in character or a system.

**What it really means**: "**Weakness**" is a noun that refers to the state or condition of lacking strength. It can be a person's **weakness** in a certain subject or a company's **weakness** in a certain area.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state or condition of lacking strength.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a moment of **weakness**," "a **weakness** for," "a glaring **weakness**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a **weakness** for chocolate, so he can't stop eating it."
            * "The new policy has a number of **weaknesses** that need to be addressed."
            * "The new team's **weakness** was their lack of experience."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has a number of **weaknesses** that need to be addressed."
            * "The study examines how a person's **weakness** in a certain subject can affect their academic performance."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear plan to address the **weakness** of the country's infrastructure."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **weakness** of the old one."

**Synonyms**: Frailty, feebleness, flaw, shortcoming, vulnerability.

**Opposite words**: Strength, power, resilience, advantage, fortitude.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *wacnes* (weakness).



.. _perception:

================================================================================
Perception
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pəˈsɛpʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The way in which something is regarded, understood, or interpreted.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**perception**" is the **process of using the senses to acquire information and interpret it**, thereby forming a personal view or understanding.

**What it really means**: "**Perception**" is a noun that refers to the way in which something is regarded, understood, or interpreted. It is a person's subjective understanding of something. For example, a person's **perception** of a new policy can be different from another person's.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the way in which something is regarded, understood, or interpreted.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "public **perception**," "a change in **perception**," "the **perception** of a problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy has a lot of negative **perception** from the public."
            * "The new marketing campaign is designed to change the **perception** of the company."
            * "I don't know what his **perception** of the situation is, but I think he is wrong."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to change the public **perception** of the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **perception** of their own body can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the public **perception** of the new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to change the **perception** of the new product."

**Synonyms**: View, understanding, insight, impression, awareness.

**Opposite words**: Misconception, ignorance, blindness, unawareness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *percipere* (to take hold of, to understand).



.. _recently:

================================================================================
Recently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈriːsəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not long ago; in the near past.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**recently**" is to be **in the near past**, indicating that an event happened not long ago.

**What it really means**: "**Recently**" is an adverb used to describe something that happened not long ago. It suggests that something happened in the near past. For example, a person can **recently** have bought a new car, or a person can **recently** have started a new job.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happened not long ago.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**recently** bought," "**recently** started," "**recently** discovered."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **recently** bought a new car, and I love it."
            * "She **recently** started a new job, and she is very happy."
            * "The new technology was **recently** discovered and is very exciting."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was **recently** put in place by the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **recently** changed diet can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that have **recently** arisen."
            * "The new law was **recently** passed and will have a lot of new changes."

**Synonyms**: Lately, newly, freshly, not long ago.

**Opposite words**: Formerly, long ago, in the past.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *receient* (recent).



.. _respect:

================================================================================
Respect
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈspɛkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A feeling of deep admiration for someone or something elicited by their abilities, qualities, or achievements; (Verb) To admire (someone or something) deeply, as a result of their abilities, qualities, or achievements.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **feeling of admiration or esteem** for someone or something. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **show admiration or honor** for someone or something.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**respect**" is a feeling of deep admiration for someone or something. As a **verb**, to "**respect**" means to admire someone or something deeply.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a feeling of deep admiration, and the verb to describe the act of admiring someone or something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "show **respect**," "a lack of **respect**," "with all due **respect**."
        * **(Verb)** "**respect** a person," "**respect** a law," "**respect** a decision."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a lot of **respect** for him because he is a very good person."
            * "You need to **respect** your elders and listen to what they have to say."
            * "The new law is designed to help people **respect** the new changes in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **respect** for the country's traditions."
            * "The study examines how a person's **respect** for a new culture can affect their ability to live in a new country."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **respect** the new laws of the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to **respect** a person's privacy."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Esteem, admiration, honor, reverence; (Verb) Admire, revere, honor, value.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Disrespect, contempt, scorn, disdain; (Verb) Disrespect, scorn, disregard.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *respectus* (regard, consideration).



.. _qualification:

================================================================================
Qualification
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌkwɒlɪfɪˈkeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An official document showing that a person has completed a course of study or passed an examination.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**qualification**" is an **achievement, skill, or attribute that makes a person suitable for a particular job or task**.

**What it really means**: A "**qualification**" is a noun that refers to an official document showing that a person has completed a course of study or passed an examination. It can also refer to a quality or accomplishment that makes a person suitable for a job. For example, a person can have a lot of **qualifications** for a new job.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an official document showing that a person has completed a course of study or passed an examination, or to refer to a quality or accomplishment that makes a person suitable for a job.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "have a **qualification**," "a lack of **qualification**," "a professional **qualification**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a lot of **qualifications** for the new job, so I think he will get it."
            * "The new job has a number of **qualifications** that I don't have."
            * "I have a professional **qualification** that will help me get the new job."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people get the necessary **qualifications** for a new job."
            * "The study examines how a person's **qualifications** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent process for the **qualification** of a new employee."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people get the necessary **qualifications** for a new job."

**Synonyms**: Certification, credential, skill, aptitude, eligibility.

**Opposite words**: Disqualification, unsuitability, ineligibility.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *qualis* (of what kind).



.. _delay:

================================================================================
Delay
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈleɪ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To make someone or something late or slow; (Noun) A period of time by which something is late or postponed.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **cause a pause or postponement**, making something happen later than planned. The core meaning of the **noun** is the **period of time** during which this postponement occurs.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**delay**" means to make someone or something late or slow. As a **noun**, a "**delay**" is a period of time by which something is late or postponed.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe the act of making something late, and the noun to refer to a period of time by which something is late.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**delay** a meeting," "**delay** a project," "**delay** a decision."
        * **(Noun)** "a short **delay**," "a long **delay**," "without **delay**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy will **delay** the project by a few weeks."
            * "There was a **delay** on the train, so I was late for work."
            * "I need to make a decision without any **delay**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will **delay** the country's economic growth."
            * "The study examines how a person's **delay** in a certain decision can affect their long-term happiness."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address any **delay** in the new project."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent any **delay** in the production of new products."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Postpone, defer, hold up, hinder; (Noun) Postponement, deferment, slowdown, setback.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Hasten, accelerate, advance, hurry; (Noun) Haste, speed, promptness.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *delaier* (to delay).



.. _refusal:

================================================================================
Refusal
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈfjuːzəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of refusing to do or accept something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**refusal**" is the **act of saying no to a request, demand, or offer**, indicating a firm denial.

**What it really means**: "**Refusal**" is a noun that refers to the act of refusing to do or accept something. It suggests that a person is not willing to do or accept something. For example, a person's **refusal** to go to a new school can be a problem.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of refusing to do or accept something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a flat **refusal**," "a **refusal** to," "a **refusal** of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy was met with a flat **refusal** from the public."
            * "I was very surprised by his **refusal** to help me."
            * "The new law is designed to help people who have a **refusal** of service."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was met with a **refusal** from the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **refusal** to accept a new idea can affect their ability to learn."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address a person's **refusal** to follow the new laws."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent a person's **refusal** to use the new products."

**Synonyms**: Denial, rejection, noncompliance, veto, declination.

**Opposite words**: Acceptance, agreement, consent, approval, compliance.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *refuser* (to refuse).



.. _distribution:

================================================================================
Distribution
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdɪstrɪˈbjuːʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of sharing something out among a number of recipients.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**distribution**" is the **process of spreading or giving out something** to a group of people or places.

**What it really means**: "**Distribution**" is a noun that refers to the action of sharing something out among a number of recipients. It can be the **distribution** of a new product or the **distribution** of a new policy.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of sharing something out among a number of recipients.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "income **distribution**," "the **distribution** of resources," "a wide **distribution**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is designed to improve the **distribution** of wealth in the country."
            * "The new product has a very wide **distribution**, so it's easy to find."
            * "The new company is in charge of the **distribution** of the new product."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to improve the **distribution** of resources in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **distribution** of their time can affect their productivity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the **distribution** of the new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to improve the **distribution** of new products."

**Synonyms**: Allocation, dissemination, sharing, circulation, apportionment.

**Opposite words**: Collection, gathering, accumulation, centralization.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *distribuere* (to divide up).



.. _densely:

================================================================================
Densely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɛnsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a close-packed or crowded way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**densely**" is to be **in a concentrated or crowded manner**, with things close together.

**What it really means**: "**Densely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a close-packed or crowded way. It suggests that things are very close together. For example, a forest can be **densely** populated with trees, or a city can be **densely** populated with people.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a close-packed or crowded way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**densely** populated," "**densely** packed," "**densely** forested."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The city is **densely** populated with people, so it's always crowded."
            * "The forest is **densely** packed with trees, so it's hard to walk through."
            * "The new building is **densely** packed with people, so it's very loud."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **densely** populated areas of the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **densely** packed schedule can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **densely** populated areas of the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **densely** packed areas of the country."

**Synonyms**: Tightly, compactly, thickly, crowdedly, compactly.

**Opposite words**: Sparsely, loosely, thinly, widely.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *densus* (thick, dense).



.. _abundance:

================================================================================
Abundance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈbʌndəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A very large quantity of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**abundance**" is to have a **very large or plentiful quantity** of something, often more than is needed.

**What it really means**: "**Abundance**" is a noun that refers to a very large quantity of something. It suggests that there is more than enough of something. For example, a country can have an **abundance** of natural resources.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a very large quantity of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "an **abundance** of," "in **abundance**," "a wealth of **abundance**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new country has an **abundance** of natural resources, so it's very wealthy."
            * "The new company has a lot of money, so they have an **abundance** of new products."
            * "The new law is designed to help the country have an **abundance** of food."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the country have an **abundance** of natural resources."
            * "The study examines how a person's **abundance** of food can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **abundance** of a certain problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the country have an **abundance** of new products."

**Synonyms**: Plenty, profusion, wealth, richness, surplus.

**Opposite words**: Scarcity, lack, shortage, deficiency, dearth.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *abundare* (to overflow).



.. _sustainably:

================================================================================
Sustainably
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈsteɪnəbli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that can be continued or maintained at a certain level.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**sustainably**" is to be **in a way that can be maintained over the long term** without depleting resources or causing harm.

**What it really means**: "**Sustainably**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that can be continued or maintained at a certain level. It suggests that a person is doing something in a way that is not harmful to the environment. For example, a person can live **sustainably** by using renewable energy.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that can be continued or maintained at a certain level.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "live **sustainably**," "grow **sustainably**," "develop **sustainably**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company is trying to grow **sustainably** by using renewable energy."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country develop **sustainably**."
            * "I am trying to live **sustainably** by using less plastic."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the country develop **sustainably**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to live **sustainably** can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **sustainably** develop the country's infrastructure."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the country **sustainably** produce new products."

**Synonyms**: Continuously, perpetually, enduringly, long-lastingly.

**Opposite words**: Unsustainably, temporarily, fleetingly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sustinere* (to hold up).



.. _crowded:

================================================================================
Crowded
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkraʊdɪd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of a space) filled with people to the point of being uncomfortable.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**crowded**" is to be **filled with an excessive number of people or things**, leading to a feeling of being cramped or overfull.

**What it really means**: "**Crowded**" is an adjective used to describe a space that is filled with people to the point of being uncomfortable. It suggests that there are too many people in a small space. For example, a bus can be **crowded** with people.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe a space that is filled with people to the point of being uncomfortable.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **crowded** room," "a **crowded** street," "a **crowded** bus."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new bus is very **crowded** in the morning, so I always have to stand."
            * "The new store is very **crowded** on the weekends, so I avoid going there."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **crowded** areas of the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **crowded** areas of the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **crowded** living conditions can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **crowded** areas of the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **crowded** areas of the country."

**Synonyms**: Packed, full, congested, overflowing, teeming.

**Opposite words**: Empty, deserted, sparse, spacious, uncrowded.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *crudan* (to press).



.. _progression:

================================================================================
Progression
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prəˈɡrɛʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process of developing or moving gradually towards a more advanced state.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**progression**" is the **process of moving forward or advancing in a gradual and sequential manner**.

**What it really means**: "**Progression**" is a noun that refers to the process of developing or moving gradually towards a more advanced state. It suggests that a person or a thing is getting better over time. For example, a person's **progression** in a new job can be very quick.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the process of developing or moving gradually towards a more advanced state.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a rapid **progression**," "a slow **progression**," "the **progression** of a disease."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "His **progression** in the new job was very quick, so he was promoted in a few months."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country's **progression** in the new technology."
            * "The new law is designed to help the country's **progression** in a new direction."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the country's **progression** in the new technology."
            * "The study examines how a person's **progression** in a new skill can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the **progression** of a new project."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the country's **progression** in a new direction."

**Synonyms**: Advance, development, improvement, evolution, growth.

**Opposite words**: Regression, decline, deterioration, stagnation, retreat.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *progredi* (to go forward).



.. _restriction:

================================================================================
Restriction
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈstrɪkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A limiting condition or measure.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**restriction**" is a **limiting condition or rule that prevents or controls** an action, access, or use.

**What it really means**: "**Restriction**" is a noun that refers to a limiting condition or measure. It suggests that a person is not allowed to do something or is not allowed to have something. For example, a new law can have a lot of **restrictions**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a limiting condition or measure.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **restriction** on," "under a **restriction**," "a legal **restriction**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law has a number of **restrictions** on what you can and can't do."
            * "I am under a **restriction** that I can't leave the house after 10 PM."
            * "The new policy has a lot of **restrictions** on the use of new technology."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **restriction** on the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **restriction** in a certain area can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **restriction** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to have a number of **restrictions** on its use."

**Synonyms**: Limitation, constraint, prohibition, curb, barrier.

**Opposite words**: Freedom, liberty, allowance, permission, deregulation.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *restringere* (to tie back, to confine).



.. _precious:

================================================================================
Precious
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɛʃəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of an object, substance, or resource) of great value; not to be wasted or treated carelessly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**precious**" is to be **of great value, rarity, or importance**, and therefore not to be wasted or treated carelessly.

**What it really means**: "**Precious**" is an adjective used to describe something that is of great value. It suggests that something is very important and should not be wasted or treated carelessly. For example, a person's time can be **precious**, or a country's natural resources can be **precious**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is of great value.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**precious** time," "**precious** resources," "**precious** moments."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My time is very **precious**, so I don't want to waste it."
            * "The new law is designed to protect the country's **precious** natural resources."
            * "I love spending **precious** moments with my family."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to protect the country's **precious** natural resources."
            * "The study examines how a person's **precious** time can affect their productivity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to protect the country's **precious** resources."
            * "The new technology is designed to save the country's **precious** resources."

**Synonyms**: Valuable, cherished, treasured, priceless, rare.

**Opposite words**: Worthless, valueless, cheap, common, unimportant.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *pretiosus* (of great value, costly).



.. _vital:

================================================================================
Vital
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvaɪtəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Absolutely necessary or important; essential.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**vital**" is to be **absolutely essential or crucial for the existence, success, or functioning** of something.

**What it really means**: "**Vital**" is an adjective used to describe something that is absolutely necessary or important. It suggests that something is very important and cannot be ignored. For example, a person's health is **vital**, or a country's economy is **vital**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is absolutely necessary or important.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**vital** to," "a **vital** role," "of **vital** importance."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is **vital** to the country's economic growth."
            * "He played a **vital** role in the team's success."
            * "The new law is of **vital** importance to the country's future."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **vital** to the country's economic growth."
            * "The study examines how a person's **vital** decisions can affect their long-term happiness."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **vital** needs of the country."
            * "The new technology is a **vital** step in the development of a new product."

**Synonyms**: Essential, crucial, necessary, fundamental, indispensable.

**Opposite words**: Unimportant, non-essential, minor, trivial, insignificant.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *vitalis* (of life).



.. _convenient:

================================================================================
Convenient
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈviːniənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Fitting in well with a person's needs, activities, and plans.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**convenient**" is to be **easy to do or use** and suitable for a particular person or situation.

**What it really means**: "**Convenient**" is an adjective used to describe something that is fitting in well with a person's needs, activities, and plans. It suggests that something is easy to do or use. For example, a store that is **convenient** to a person's house is a good thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is fitting in well with a person's needs, activities, and plans.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**convenient** for," "a **convenient** time," "a **convenient** location."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new store is very **convenient** for me because it's close to my house."
            * "I need to find a **convenient** time to have a meeting with my boss."
            * "The new policy is a **convenient** solution to a bigger problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **convenient** solution to the country's economic problems."
            * "The study examines how a person's **convenient** living conditions can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for a **convenient** solution to a new problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **convenient** solution for a lot of people."

**Synonyms**: Handy, suitable, accessible, practical, easy.

**Opposite words**: Inconvenient, difficult, impractical, unsuitable.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *convenire* (to come together).



.. _randomly:

================================================================================
Randomly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrændəmli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Without a definite plan, purpose, or pattern.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**randomly**" is to be **without a specific plan, order, or purpose**, relying on chance.

**What it really means**: "**Randomly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done without a definite plan, purpose, or pattern. It suggests that something is done by chance. For example, a person can **randomly** pick a name out of a hat.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without a definite plan, purpose, or pattern.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**randomly** selected," "**randomly** chosen," "**randomly** generated."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy was **randomly** selected from a list of a lot of new policies."
            * "The new test has a number of **randomly** generated questions."
            * "The new game is designed to have a number of **randomly** generated levels."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was **randomly** selected from a list of a lot of new policies."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **randomly** choose a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **randomly** generated problems in the new system."
            * "The new technology is designed to **randomly** generate new ideas."

**Synonyms**: Haphazardly, arbitrarily, aimlessly, unsystematically.

**Opposite words**: Systematically, deliberately, intentionally, purposefully, methodically.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *randun* (at great speed).



.. _fragile:

================================================================================
Fragile
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfrædʒaɪl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of an object) easily broken or damaged.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**fragile**" is to be **easily broken or damaged**, indicating a lack of durability or strength.

**What it really means**: "**Fragile**" is an adjective used to describe something that is easily broken or damaged. It can also be used to describe a person's health or a country's economy. For example, a glass can be **fragile**, or a person's health can be **fragile**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is easily broken or damaged.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **fragile** glass," "a **fragile** economy," "a **fragile** peace."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new glass is very **fragile**, so you have to be careful with it."
            * "The new country has a very **fragile** economy, so it's in danger of collapsing."
            * "The new peace treaty is very **fragile**, so it could break at any time."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the country's **fragile** economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **fragile** mental health can affect their ability to work."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **fragile** peace in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the country's **fragile** economy."

**Synonyms**: Breakable, delicate, weak, vulnerable, brittle.

**Opposite words**: Strong, durable, robust, sturdy, resilient.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *fragilis* (brittle, easily broken).



.. _adherence:

================================================================================
Adherence
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ədˈhɪərəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: Attachment or commitment to a person, cause, or belief.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**adherence**" is the **act of sticking to or following a rule, belief, or plan** with loyalty and consistency.

**What it really means**: "**Adherence**" is a noun that refers to the attachment or commitment to a person, cause, or belief. It suggests that a person is loyal to something and will not change their mind. For example, a person's **adherence** to a new policy can be very strong.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the attachment or commitment to a person, cause, or belief.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "**adherence** to a policy," "**adherence** to a belief," "**adherence** to a plan."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy requires a strict **adherence** to the new rules."
            * "His **adherence** to his beliefs is very strong, and he will not change his mind."
            * "The new plan requires a strict **adherence** to the new rules."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy requires a strict **adherence** to the new rules."
            * "The study examines how a person's **adherence** to a new diet can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the **adherence** to a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to have a strict **adherence** to the new rules."

**Synonyms**: Compliance, loyalty, devotion, faithfulness, conformity.

**Opposite words**: Non-adherence, noncompliance, disloyalty, betrayal.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *adhaerere* (to stick to).



.. _adequate:

================================================================================
Adequate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈædɪkwət/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Satisfactory or acceptable in quality or quantity.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**adequate**" is to be **sufficient or just enough to meet a requirement**, without being excellent or excessive.

**What it really means**: "**Adequate**" is an adjective used to describe something that is satisfactory or acceptable in quality or quantity. It suggests that something is good enough, but not great. For example, a person's work can be **adequate**, or a country's food supply can be **adequate**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is satisfactory or acceptable in quality or quantity.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**adequate** for," "**adequate** supply," "**adequate** time."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is **adequate** for the new problems in the country."
            * "The new company has an **adequate** supply of new products."
            * "I have an **adequate** amount of time to finish the project."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **adequate** for the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **adequate** diet can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having an **adequate** plan for the new project."
            * "The new technology is designed to provide an **adequate** solution to a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Sufficient, enough, satisfactory, acceptable, suitable.

**Opposite words**: Inadequate, insufficient, unsatisfactory, unacceptable.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *adaequare* (to make equal to).



.. _facilities:

================================================================================
Facilities
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/fəˈsɪlɪtiz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A place or an item that is provided for a particular purpose.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**facilities**" is the **buildings, services, or equipment provided for a particular purpose**, such as for recreation, production, or learning.

**What it really means**: "**Facilities**" is a noun that refers to a place or an item that is provided for a particular purpose. It can be a school's **facilities** or a company's **facilities**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a place or an item that is provided for a particular purpose.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "school **facilities**," "recreational **facilities**," "medical **facilities**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new school has a lot of new **facilities**, so it's a great place to learn."
            * "The new park has a lot of new recreational **facilities**, so it's a great place to go."
            * "The new hospital has a lot of new medical **facilities**, so it's a great place to go."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to improve the country's medical **facilities**."
            * "The study examines how a person's access to new **facilities** can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to improve the country's recreational **facilities**."
            * "The new technology is designed to improve the country's **facilities**."

**Synonyms**: Amenities, services, infrastructure, buildings, equipment.

**Opposite words**: Disamenities, lack of facilities, deficiencies.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *facilis* (easy).



.. _carefully:

================================================================================
Carefully
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɛərfəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that avoids damage or risk.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**carefully**" is to be **with great attention to detail and with caution**, so as to avoid mistakes or harm.

**What it really means**: "**Carefully**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that avoids damage or risk. It suggests that a person is paying a lot of attention to what they are doing. For example, a person can **carefully** drive a car or **carefully** handle a fragile item.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that avoids damage or risk.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "drive **carefully**," "handle **carefully**," "read **carefully**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **carefully** drive my car in the rain so that I don't get into an accident."
            * "You need to **carefully** handle the new glass so that you don't break it."
            * "You need to **carefully** read the new policy so that you understand it."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was **carefully** designed by the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **carefully** read a new document can affect their understanding."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **carefully** address a new problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to **carefully** handle a new product."

**Synonyms**: Cautiously, attentively, meticulously, prudently, thoughtfully.

**Opposite words**: Carelessly, recklessly, negligently, inattentively.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *carful* (full of care).



.. _eliminate:

================================================================================
Eliminate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈlɪmɪneɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To completely remove or get rid of (something).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**eliminate**" is to **completely remove, get rid of, or do away with** something.

**What it really means**: To "**eliminate**" means to completely remove or get rid of something. It is the act of getting rid of something that is not needed. For example, a company can **eliminate** a new product that is not selling well.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of completely removing or getting rid of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**eliminate** a problem," "**eliminate** a person," "**eliminate** a product."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is designed to **eliminate** the new problems in the country."
            * "The new company is trying to **eliminate** a lot of its old products."
            * "The new law is designed to **eliminate** a lot of old laws that are no longer needed."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **eliminate** the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **eliminate** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **eliminate** the new problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to **eliminate** a lot of old problems."

**Synonyms**: Remove, get rid of, eradicate, abolish, terminate.

**Opposite words**: Introduce, add, include, create, maintain.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *eliminare* (to turn out of doors).



.. _notoriously:

================================================================================
Notoriously
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/noʊˈtɔːriəsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is well known, typically for some bad quality or deed.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**notoriously**" is to be **in a manner that is widely and unfavorably known**, often for a negative reason.

**What it really means**: "**Notoriously**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is well known, typically for some bad quality or deed. It suggests that a person or a thing is famous for a bad reason. For example, a person can be **notoriously** bad at their job.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is well known, typically for some bad quality or deed.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**notoriously** bad," "**notoriously** difficult," "**notoriously** expensive."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new car is **notoriously** unreliable, so I don't want to buy it."
            * "The new job is **notoriously** difficult, so I don't know if I can do it."
            * "The new law is **notoriously** bad, so I don't think it will work."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **notoriously** bad for the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **notoriously** bad reputation can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **notoriously** bad problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **notoriously** expensive, so it will not be widely used."

**Synonyms**: Infamously, reputedly, widely known, famously (in a negative sense).

**Opposite words**: Honorably, reputably, famously (in a positive sense), unremarkably.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *notorius* (known).



.. _challenge:

================================================================================
Challenge
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtʃælɪndʒ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A call to someone to participate in a competitive situation or fight to decide who is superior in terms of ability or strength; (Verb) To invite someone to engage in a contest.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **demanding or difficult task or situation** that tests one's abilities. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **question the validity or authority of something** or to invite someone to a contest.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**challenge**" is a difficult task or situation. As a **verb**, to "**challenge**" means to question the validity or authority of something.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a difficult task or situation, and the verb to describe the act of questioning the validity or authority of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **challenge**," "face a **challenge**," "a great **challenge**."
        * **(Verb)** "**challenge** a claim," "**challenge** a person," "**challenge** a law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new job is a great **challenge** for me, but I think I can do it."
            * "He **challenged** my claim that the new policy would not work."
            * "The new law is a **challenge** to the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **challenge** to the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **challenge** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **challenge** of a new problem."
            * "The new technology is a **challenge** to the old one."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Obstacle, difficulty, test, task; (Verb) Question, dispute, confront, defy.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Advantage, ease, simplicity, solution; (Verb) Accept, agree, support, comply.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *chalengier* (to accuse).



.. _pollute:

================================================================================
Pollute
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pəˈluːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To contaminate (water, air, or soil) with harmful or poisonous substances.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**pollute**" is to **make something dirty or unsafe** by introducing harmful substances.

**What it really means**: To "**pollute**" means to contaminate water, air, or soil with harmful or poisonous substances. It is the act of making something dirty or unsafe. For example, a company can **pollute** a river with its waste.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of contaminating water, air, or soil with harmful or poisonous substances.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**pollute** the air," "**pollute** the water," "**pollute** the soil."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new factory will **pollute** the air with a lot of smoke."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent companies from **polluting** the river."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the country **pollute** less."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to prevent companies from **polluting** the environment."
            * "The study examines how a person's **pollute** of the environment can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to prevent the new technology from **polluting** the environment."
            * "The new law is designed to help the country **pollute** less."

**Synonyms**: Contaminate, taint, foul, poison, corrupt.

**Opposite words**: Purify, clean, cleanse, sanitize, decontaminate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *polluere* (to soil, to defile).



.. _obligation:

================================================================================
Obligation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɒblɪˈɡeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An act or course of action to which a person is morally or legally bound; a duty or commitment.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**obligation**" is a **moral or legal duty that a person is bound to perform**, a sense of being required to do something.

**What it really means**: "**Obligation**" is a noun that refers to an act or course of action to which a person is morally or legally bound. It suggests that a person has a duty or a commitment to do something. For example, a person's **obligation** to their family is to take care of them.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an act or course of action to which a person is morally or legally bound.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a moral **obligation**," "a legal **obligation**," "a sense of **obligation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a moral **obligation** to help my friends when they are in need."
            * "The new policy is a legal **obligation** for all companies."
            * "I feel a sense of **obligation** to help the new employee."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a legal **obligation** for all companies."
            * "The study examines how a person's **obligation** to their family can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address a person's **obligation** to the community."
            * "The new law is a legal **obligation** for all citizens."

**Synonyms**: Duty, responsibility, commitment, liability, requirement.

**Opposite words**: Freedom, choice, option, right, exemption.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *obligare* (to bind to).



.. _hinder:

================================================================================
Hinder
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɪndər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To create difficulties for (someone or something), resulting in delay or obstruction.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**hinder**" is to **make it difficult for someone or something to do something**, thereby causing a delay or an obstruction.

**What it really means**: To "**hinder**" means to create difficulties for someone or something, resulting in delay or obstruction. It is the act of making it hard for someone to do something. For example, a person's lack of experience can **hinder** their ability to get a new job.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of creating difficulties for someone or something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**hinder** a person," "**hinder** a project," "**hinder** a process."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy will **hinder** the project's progress."
            * "His lack of experience will **hinder** his ability to get a new job."
            * "The new law is designed to **hinder** the new problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will **hinder** the country's economic growth."
            * "The study examines how a person's **hinder** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to prevent the new technology from **hinder** the new project."
            * "The new law is designed to **hinder** the new problems in the country."

**Synonyms**: Obstruct, impede, hamper, delay, block.

**Opposite words**: Help, assist, facilitate, advance, promote.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *hindrian* (to hold back).



.. _exception:

================================================================================
Exception
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈsɛpʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A person or thing that is excluded from a general statement or rule.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**exception**" is a **person or thing that is not included in a general rule or principle**, standing out from the rest.

**What it really means**: An "**exception**" is a noun that refers to a person or a thing that is excluded from a general statement or rule. It suggests that something is not part of the normal rule. For example, a person can be an **exception** to a new law.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a person or a thing that is excluded from a general statement or rule.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "with the **exception** of," "as an **exception**," "a rare **exception**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law applies to everyone, with the **exception** of the police."
            * "I will make an **exception** for you because you are my friend."
            * "The new policy is a rare **exception** to the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy applies to everyone, with the **exception** of the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **exception** to a new law can affect their ability to live in a new country."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **exception** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to have a number of **exceptions** to the new rules."

**Synonyms**: Exclusion, exemption, anomaly, deviation, peculiarity.

**Opposite words**: Rule, norm, generality, regularity, inclusion.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *excipere* (to take out).



.. _operate:

================================================================================
Operate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɒpəreɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To work in a particular way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**operate**" is to **work, function, or be in a state of activity**, as a machine or a system does.

**What it really means**: To "**operate**" means to work in a particular way. It is the act of a machine or a system working. For example, a new machine can **operate** in a very efficient way.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of a machine or a system working.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**operate** a machine," "**operate** a system," "**operate** in a way."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new machine is very easy to **operate**."
            * "The new policy is designed to **operate** in a new way."
            * "The new company is trying to **operate** in a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **operate** in a new way."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **operate** a new machine can affect their productivity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the new system to **operate**."
            * "The new technology is designed to **operate** in a new way."

**Synonyms**: Function, work, run, perform, manage.

**Opposite words**: Malfunction, fail, break down, stop.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *operari* (to work).



.. _familiarly:

================================================================================
Familiarly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/fəˈmɪliərli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is well known from long or close association.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**familiarly**" is to be **in a way that is well known, intimate, or informal**, as a result of long-term association.

**What it really means**: "**Familiarly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is well known from long or close association. It suggests that a person is very comfortable with something. For example, a person can **familiarly** speak to a friend.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is well known from long or close association.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "speak **familiarly**," "act **familiarly**," "behave **familiarly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He spoke **familiarly** to the new person, and they became friends."
            * "She acted **familiarly** with the new boss, and he was very impressed."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people **familiarly** use the new technology."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people **familiarly** use the new technology."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **familiarly** use a new language can affect their ability to live in a new country."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help people **familiarly** use the new system."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **familiarly** use the new products."

**Synonyms**: Intimately, informally, casually, openly, comfortably.

**Opposite words**: Formally, distantly, reservedly, stiffly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *familiaris* (of a family).



.. _election:

================================================================================
Election
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈlɛkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A formal and organized choice by vote of a person for a political office or other position.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**election**" is the **formal process of choosing someone** for a public office or position by voting.

**What it really means**: An "**election**" is a noun that refers to a formal and organized choice by vote of a person for a political office or other position. It is the act of people choosing who they want to represent them. For example, a country can have a new **election** to choose a new leader.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a formal and organized choice by vote of a person for a political office or other position.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **election**," "a general **election**," "a democratic **election**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new country is having a new **election** to choose a new leader."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people vote in the new **election**."
            * "The new law is designed to ensure that the new **election** is fair."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to ensure that the new **election** is fair."
            * "The study examines how a person's vote in a new **election** can affect the country's future."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to ensure that the new **election** is fair."
            * "The new law is designed to help people vote in the new **election**."

**Synonyms**: Vote, ballot, poll, choosing, selection.

**Opposite words**: Appointment, designation.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *eligere* (to choose).



.. _admission:

================================================================================
Admission
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ədˈmɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process or fact of entering or being allowed to enter a place or an organization.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**admission**" is the **act of allowing entry or access** to a place, an organization, or a fact.

**What it really means**: "**Admission**" is a noun that refers to the process or fact of entering or being allowed to enter a place or an organization. It can also refer to the act of confessing or acknowledging something. For example, a person's **admission** to a new school can be a great thing, or a person's **admission** of a mistake can be a good thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the process or fact of entering or being allowed to enter a place or an organization, or to the act of confessing or acknowledging something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "get **admission**," "a public **admission**," "a private **admission**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I was so happy when I got my **admission** to the new school."
            * "His public **admission** of his mistake was very surprising."
            * "The new law is designed to help people get **admission** to a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people get **admission** to a new school."
            * "The study examines how a person's **admission** of a mistake can affect their reputation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the **admission** of a new person to a new country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people get **admission** to a new school."

**Synonyms**: Entry, access, acceptance, confession, acknowledgment.

**Opposite words**: Exclusion, rejection, denial, refusal, dismissal.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *admittere* (to send to, to allow to enter).



.. _habit:

================================================================================
Habit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhæbɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A settled or regular tendency or practice, especially one that is hard to give up.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**habit**" is a **regular, repeated behavior or practice** that is difficult to stop or change.

**What it really means**: A "**habit**" is a noun that refers to a settled or regular tendency or practice, especially one that is hard to give up. It suggests that a person is doing something that they do all the time. For example, a person can have a bad **habit** of smoking, or a person can have a good **habit** of exercising.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a settled or regular tendency or practice.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a good **habit**," "a bad **habit**," "form a **habit**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a bad **habit** of smoking, and I'm trying to quit."
            * "Exercising every day is a good **habit** that I have."
            * "The new law is designed to help people form a good **habit** of saving money."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people form a good **habit** of saving money."
            * "The study examines how a person's bad **habit** can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help people form a good **habit** of exercising."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people form a good **habit** of saving money."

**Synonyms**: Custom, practice, routine, tendency, pattern.

**Opposite words**: Deviation, exception, novelty, irregularity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *habitus* (state, condition).



.. _advance:

================================================================================
Advance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ədˈvɑːns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To move forward in a purposeful way; (Noun) A forward movement.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **move forward or make progress**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **forward movement or a significant development**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**advance**" means to move forward in a purposeful way. As a **noun**, an "**advance**" is a forward movement.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to describe the act of moving forward in a purposeful way, and the noun to refer to a forward movement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**advance** a cause," "**advance** a plan," "**advance** a position."
        * **(Noun)** "a scientific **advance**," "an **advance** in technology," "in **advance**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy will **advance** the country's economic growth."
            * "The new technology is an **advance** in the field of medicine."
            * "I paid for the new car in **advance**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will **advance** the country's economic growth."
            * "The study examines how a person's **advance** in a new skill can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **advance** the country's infrastructure."
            * "The new technology is an **advance** in the field of medicine."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Progress, move forward, develop, improve; (Noun) Progress, development, breakthrough, improvement.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Retreat, regress, fall back, halt; (Noun) Retreat, regression, setback.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *avancier* (to move forward).



.. _adjust:

================================================================================
Adjust
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈdʒʌst/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To alter or move something slightly in order to achieve a desired fit, appearance, or result.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**adjust**" is to **make a small change to something** to make it more suitable or effective for a new situation.

**What it really means**: To "**adjust**" means to alter or move something slightly in order to achieve a desired fit, appearance, or result. It is the act of making a small change to something. For example, a person can **adjust** a new policy to make it more effective.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of altering or moving something slightly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**adjust** to," "**adjust** a policy," "**adjust** a plan."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **adjust** the settings on my computer so that I can see better."
            * "The new policy is a small **adjust** to the old one."
            * "The new employee needs some time to **adjust** to the new company."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will **adjust** to the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **adjust** to a new environment can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **adjust** the new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **adjust** to the new problems in the country."

**Synonyms**: Alter, modify, adapt, fine-tune, regulate.

**Opposite words**: Maintain, keep, preserve, fix, stabilize.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *ajuster* (to adjust).


.. _excessively:

================================================================================
Excessively
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈsɛsɪvli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To an extent or degree that is too great or extreme.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**excessively**" is to be **beyond what is normal, necessary, or reasonable**, indicating a degree that is too much.

**What it really means**: "**Excessively**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to an extent or degree that is too great or extreme. It suggests that something is done in a way that is not normal or reasonable. For example, a person can be **excessively** tired, or a new law can be **excessively** strict.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to an extent or degree that is too great or extreme.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**excessively** strict," "**excessively** loud," "**excessively** tired."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is **excessively** strict, and a lot of people are not happy about it."
            * "The new car is **excessively** loud, so I can't drive it at night."
            * "I am **excessively** tired, so I can't do any work."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **excessively** strict, and it will have a lot of negative effects."
            * "The study examines how a person's **excessively** loud music can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **excessively** high cost of a new product."
            * "The new technology is **excessively** expensive, so it will not be widely used."

**Synonyms**: Overly, unduly, immoderately, inordinately, disproportionately.

**Opposite words**: Moderately, reasonably, adequately, sufficiently.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *excedere* (to go out, to go beyond).



.. _disastrous:

================================================================================
Disastrous
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈzɑːstrəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Causing great damage.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**disastrous**" is to **cause a catastrophe or a great amount of damage**, often with negative consequences.

**What it really means**: "**Disastrous**" is an adjective used to describe something that causes great damage. It suggests that a person or a thing has a very bad effect on something. For example, a new policy can be **disastrous** for a country's economy, or a new project can be **disastrous** for a company.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that causes great damage.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **disastrous** policy," "a **disastrous** outcome," "a **disastrous** mistake."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy was a **disastrous** mistake, and it had to be changed."
            * "The new project had a **disastrous** outcome, and the company lost a lot of money."
            * "The new law is **disastrous** for the country's economy, so it needs to be changed."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was a **disastrous** mistake, and it had a lot of negative effects."
            * "The study examines how a person's **disastrous** decisions can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **disastrous** effects of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a **disastrous** mistake, and it will not be widely used."

**Synonyms**: Catastrophic, ruinous, calamitous, devastating, terrible.

**Opposite words**: Fortunate, successful, beneficial, prosperous.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *dis* (apart) and *astrum* (star), meaning "ill-starred."



.. _adversely:

================================================================================
Adversely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈædvɜːsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is harmful, unfavorable, or detrimental.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**adversely**" is to be **in a way that is harmful or unfavorable**, having a negative effect on something.

**What it really means**: "**Adversely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is harmful, unfavorable, or detrimental. It suggests that a person or a thing has a negative effect on something. For example, a new policy can **adversely** affect a country's economy.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is harmful, unfavorable, or detrimental.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**adversely** affect," "**adversely** impact," "**adversely** influenced."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy will **adversely** affect the country's economy."
            * "The new project had an **adversely** impact on the company's reputation."
            * "The new law is **adversely** influencing the new problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy will **adversely** affect the country's economic growth."
            * "The study examines how a person's **adversely** affected mental health can affect their ability to work."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **adversely** affected areas of the country."
            * "The new technology is **adversely** impacting the old one."

**Synonyms**: Negatively, unfavorably, detrimentally, harmfully.

**Opposite words**: Positively, favorably, beneficially, advantageously.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *adversus* (turned toward, hostile).



.. _deliberately:

================================================================================
Deliberately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈlɪbərətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Consciously and intentionally; on purpose.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**deliberately**" is to be **with careful thought and intention**, indicating that an action was not accidental.

**What it really means**: "**Deliberately**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done consciously and intentionally. It suggests that a person is doing something on purpose, not by accident. For example, a person can **deliberately** break a rule.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done consciously and intentionally.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**deliberately** slow," "**deliberately** ignore," "**deliberately** deceive."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **deliberately** broke the new rule, so he was punished."
            * "The new law was **deliberately** designed to help the country's economy."
            * "The new project was **deliberately** made to be very difficult."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was **deliberately** designed to help the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deliberately** bad decisions can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **deliberately** caused problems in the country."
            * "The new technology was **deliberately** made to be very difficult."

**Synonyms**: Intentionally, on purpose, consciously, knowingly, purposefully.

**Opposite words**: Accidentally, unintentionally, inadvertently, unknowingly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deliberatus* (considered, weighed).



.. _missing:

================================================================================
Missing
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɪsɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not present or included when expected or supposed to be.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**missing**" is to be **absent or not in its expected place**, indicating a gap or an absence.

**What it really means**: "**Missing**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not present or included when expected or supposed to be. It suggests that a person or a thing is not where it should be. For example, a person's car can be **missing**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not present or included when expected or supposed to be.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **missing** person," "a **missing** piece," "a **missing** link."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My car is **missing**, so I can't go to work."
            * "The new puzzle has a **missing** piece, so I can't finish it."
            * "The new report has a lot of **missing** information, so it's not very useful."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has a lot of **missing** information."
            * "The study examines how a person's **missing** family member can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **missing** information in the new system."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **missing** information."

**Synonyms**: Absent, lost, gone, unaccounted for, vanished.

**Opposite words**: Present, found, located, existing.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *missan* (to miss).



.. _explanation:

================================================================================
Explanation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɛkspləˈneɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A statement or account that makes something clear.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**explanation**" is an **account or statement that clarifies or provides reasons** for a particular event or idea.

**What it really means**: An "**explanation**" is a noun that refers to a statement or account that makes something clear. It is the act of making something clear. For example, a person can give an **explanation** for why they were late.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a statement or account that makes something clear.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "give an **explanation**," "a clear **explanation**," "a simple **explanation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need a clear **explanation** for why you were late."
            * "The new policy has a lot of confusing parts, so I need a simple **explanation**."
            * "The new law is designed to give an **explanation** for the new changes in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has a lot of confusing parts, so a clear **explanation** is needed."
            * "The study examines how a person's **explanation** of a new idea can affect their ability to learn."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to give an **explanation** for the new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to give a clear **explanation** of how it works."

**Synonyms**: Clarification, elucidation, interpretation, justification, reason.

**Opposite words**: Confusion, mystery, ambiguity, puzzle.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *explanare* (to make level, to explain).



.. _globally:

================================================================================
Globally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɡloʊbəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: All over the world.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**globally**" is to be **on a worldwide scale or in a comprehensive manner**, encompassing the entire planet or a whole system.

**What it really means**: "**Globally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done all over the world. It suggests that something is done on a worldwide scale. For example, a new product can be sold **globally**, or a new policy can have a **globally** impact.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done all over the world.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "act **globally**," "think **globally**," "compete **globally**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company is trying to compete **globally** with other companies."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country's economy on a **globally** scale."
            * "The new technology is having a **globally** impact on the world."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to have a **globally** impact on the world."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to think **globally** can affect their success in a new career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **globally** problems in the world."
            * "The new technology is designed to have a **globally** impact on the world."

**Synonyms**: Worldwide, internationally, universally, comprehensively.

**Opposite words**: Locally, regionally, nationally, domestically.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *globus* (sphere).



.. _trivial:

================================================================================
Trivial
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtrɪviəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Of little value or importance.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**trivial**" is to be **insignificant or of little importance or value**, not worth serious consideration.

**What it really means**: "**Trivial**" is an adjective used to describe something that is of little value or importance. It suggests that something is not worth a lot of attention. For example, a person's problems can be **trivial** compared to other people's problems.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is of little value or importance.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **trivial** matter," "a **trivial** problem," "a **trivial** amount."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new problem is very **trivial** compared to the old one."
            * "I don't want to waste my time on such a **trivial** matter."
            * "The new law is designed to address a lot of **trivial** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address a lot of **trivial** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **trivial** worries can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **trivial** problems in the new system."
            * "The new technology is designed to address a lot of **trivial** problems."

**Synonyms**: Insignificant, minor, unimportant, petty, negligible.

**Opposite words**: Important, significant, crucial, essential, vital.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *trivialis* (of the crossroads, commonplace).



.. _imply:

================================================================================
Imply
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪmˈplaɪ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To suggest something without saying it directly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**imply**" is to **suggest or hint at something indirectly**, so that it is understood without being explicitly stated.

**What it really means**: To "**imply**" means to suggest something without saying it directly. It is the act of hinting at something. For example, a person's silence can **imply** a lot of things.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of suggesting something without saying it directly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**imply** that," "**imply** a lot," "**imply** a lot of things."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I don't know what he is trying to **imply**, but I think he is trying to tell me something."
            * "The new policy seems to **imply** that the government is not doing a good job."
            * "His silence seems to **imply** that he is not happy with the new decision."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy seems to **imply** that the government is not doing a good job."
            * "The study examines how a person's body language can **imply** a lot of things."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **imply** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology seems to **imply** that the old one is not good enough."

**Synonyms**: Suggest, hint, insinuate, intimate, allude.

**Opposite words**: State, express, declare, articulate, specify.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *implicare* (to enfold, to involve).



.. _susceptibility:

================================================================================
Susceptibility
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˌsɛptəˈbɪlɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state or fact of being likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**susceptibility**" is the **state of being easily influenced, affected, or harmed** by something.

**What it really means**: "**Susceptibility**" is a noun that refers to the state or fact of being likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing. It suggests that a person or a thing is very vulnerable to something. For example, a person's **susceptibility** to a new disease can be very high.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state or fact of being likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "**susceptibility** to," "a high **susceptibility**," "a low **susceptibility**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a high **susceptibility** to a new disease, so I need to be careful."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country reduce its **susceptibility** to a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address a person's **susceptibility** to a new idea."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to reduce the country's **susceptibility** to a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **susceptibility** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **susceptibility** of the new system to a new problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to reduce a person's **susceptibility** to a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Vulnerability, sensitivity, proneness, liability, weakness.

**Opposite words**: Resistance, immunity, resilience, insusceptibility.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *suscipere* (to take up).



.. _ensure:

================================================================================
Ensure
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈʃʊər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To make certain that something will occur or be the case.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**ensure**" is to **make certain that something will happen** without fail.

**What it really means**: To "**ensure**" means to make certain that something will occur or be the case. It is the act of making sure that something will happen. For example, a person can **ensure** that they are on time for a meeting.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of making certain that something will occur or be the case.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**ensure** that," "**ensure** success," "**ensure** safety."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **ensure** that I am on time for my meeting, so I will leave early."
            * "The new policy is designed to **ensure** that everyone is safe."
            * "The new law is designed to **ensure** that the country's economy is stable."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **ensure** that the country's economy is stable."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **ensure** their own safety can affect their long-term health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **ensure** the new system is working correctly."
            * "The new technology is designed to **ensure** that the new products are safe."

**Synonyms**: Guarantee, secure, certify, make certain, confirm.

**Opposite words**: Jeopardize, endanger, risk, imperil.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *enseurer* (to assure, to make safe).



.. _implementation:

================================================================================
Implementation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪmpləmɛnˈteɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process of putting a decision, plan, or agreement into effect.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**implementation**" is the **process of carrying out or putting a plan or decision into action**.

**What it really means**: "**Implementation**" is a noun that refers to the process of putting a decision, plan, or agreement into effect. It is the act of putting something into practice. For example, the **implementation** of a new policy can take a long time.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the process of putting a decision, plan, or agreement into effect.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **implementation** of," "during **implementation**," "successful **implementation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The **implementation** of the new policy will take a long time."
            * "The new project is in the **implementation** phase, so we need to work hard."
            * "The new law is designed to help the **implementation** of the new changes in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the **implementation** of the new policy will take a long time."
            * "The study examines how a person's **implementation** of a new plan can affect their success."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the **implementation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the **implementation** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Execution, application, fulfillment, enactment, realization.

**Opposite words**: Non-implementation, failure, neglect, inaction.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *implere* (to fill up).



.. _mandate:

================================================================================
Mandate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmændeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) An official order or commission to do something; (Verb) To give (someone) a mandate to do something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is an **official order or a clear command** given by a higher authority. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **officially require or command** an action.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**mandate**" is an official order or commission to do something. As a **verb**, to "**mandate**" means to give someone a mandate to do something.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to an official order, and the verb to describe the act of giving an official order.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a clear **mandate**," "a popular **mandate**," "an electoral **mandate**."
        * **(Verb)** "**mandate** that," "**mandate** a new policy," "**mandate** a new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is a **mandate** from the government, so we have to follow it."
            * "The new policy was **mandate** by the new leader, so we have to follow it."
            * "The new project is a **mandate** from the new company, so we have to do it."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **mandate** from the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **mandate** to do something can affect their motivation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **mandate** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a **mandate** from the new company."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Command, order, directive, decree; (Verb) Order, command, require, authorize.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Request, suggestion, option; (Verb) Request, suggest, allow.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *mandatum* (a command).



.. _growth:

================================================================================
Growth
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɡroʊθ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process of increasing in size, amount, or intensity.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**growth**" is the **process of increasing in size, development, or importance**, signifying a positive change.

**What it really means**: "**Growth**" is a noun that refers to the process of increasing in size, amount, or intensity. It suggests that a person or a thing is getting bigger or better. For example, a person's **growth** in a new job can be very quick, or a country's economic **growth** can be very fast.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the process of increasing in size, amount, or intensity.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "economic **growth**," "personal **growth**," "a period of **growth**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country's economic **growth**."
            * "The new project is a great opportunity for my personal **growth**."
            * "The new company is experiencing a lot of **growth**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the country's economic **growth**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **growth** in a new skill can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **growth** of a new problem."
            * "The new technology is a **growth** in the field of medicine."

**Synonyms**: Development, expansion, increase, progress, advancement.

**Opposite words**: Decline, decrease, shrinkage, stagnation, recession.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *growan* (to grow).



.. _ambition:

================================================================================
Ambition
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/æmˈbɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A strong desire to do or achieve something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**ambition**" is a **strong desire and determination to achieve success or power**.

**What it really means**: "**Ambition**" is a noun that refers to a strong desire to do or achieve something. It suggests that a person is very motivated and determined to succeed. For example, a person's **ambition** to become a doctor can be very strong.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a strong desire to do or achieve something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "have a lot of **ambition**," "a burning **ambition**," "a lack of **ambition**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a lot of **ambition** to become a doctor, so I am studying very hard."
            * "He has a lot of **ambition** to become a great leader."
            * "The new policy is a reflection of the country's **ambition** to become a new superpower."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a reflection of the country's **ambition** to become a new superpower."
            * "The study examines how a person's **ambition** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the country's **ambition** to become a new superpower."
            * "The new technology is a reflection of the company's **ambition** to become a new leader."

**Synonyms**: Aspiration, goal, drive, determination, purpose.

**Opposite words**: Apathy, indifference, laziness, lack of ambition.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *ambitio* (a going around).



.. _compulsory:

================================================================================
Compulsory
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəmˈpʌlsəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Required by law or a rule; obligatory.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**compulsory**" is to be **required by a rule or law**, meaning that it is not optional and must be done.

**What it really means**: "**Compulsory**" is an adjective used to describe something that is required by law or a rule. It suggests that a person has to do something, and they don't have a choice. For example, school is **compulsory** for all children.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is required by law or a rule.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**compulsory** education," "**compulsory** military service," "**compulsory** voting."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "In my country, education is **compulsory** for all children until the age of 16."
            * "The new law is designed to make voting **compulsory** for all citizens."
            * "The new policy is a **compulsory** measure to address the new problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **compulsory** measure to address the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **compulsory** education can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **compulsory** nature of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **compulsory** tool for all employees."

**Synonyms**: Obligatory, mandatory, required, necessary, essential.

**Opposite words**: Optional, voluntary, elective, non-compulsory.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *compellere* (to drive together, to compel).



.. _approval:

================================================================================
Approval
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈpruːvəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of approving something; formal permission.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**approval**" is the **act of formally agreeing to something**, giving permission or consent.

**What it really means**: "**Approval**" is a noun that refers to the action of approving something. It is the act of giving formal permission. For example, a person needs to get **approval** from their boss to take a day off.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of approving something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "get **approval**," "a lack of **approval**," "formal **approval**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to get **approval** from my boss to take a day off."
            * "The new policy has a lot of public **approval**, so it will be implemented."
            * "The new law is designed to get the public's **approval**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy has a lot of public **approval**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **approval** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to get the **approval** of the new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to get the public's **approval**."

**Synonyms**: Consent, permission, authorization, sanction, endorsement.

**Opposite words**: Disapproval, rejection, refusal, veto.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *aprover* (to approve).



.. _adopt:

================================================================================
Adopt
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈdɒpt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To take on or assume (an attitude, policy, or course of action) or to take (a child) as one's own.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**adopt**" is to **formally take something as your own**, whether it's a child, a policy, or a practice.

**What it really means**: To "**adopt**" means to take on or assume a new policy or course of action. It can also refer to the act of taking a child as one's own. For example, a country can **adopt** a new policy, or a person can **adopt** a new child.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of taking on or assuming a new policy or course of action, or to the act of taking a child as one's own.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**adopt** a new policy," "**adopt** a new child," "**adopt** a new plan."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company is going to **adopt** a new policy to help its employees."
            * "The new couple is going to **adopt** a new child."
            * "The new law is designed to help people **adopt** a new way of living."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the country **adopt** a new way of living."
            * "The study examines how a person's **adopt** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help the country **adopt** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the company **adopt** a new way of working."

**Synonyms**: Assume, take on, embrace, espouse, choose.

**Opposite words**: Reject, abandon, discard, renounce, forsake.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *adoptare* (to choose for oneself).



.. _maintenance:

================================================================================
Maintenance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmeɪntənəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The process of preserving a condition or situation or of keeping something in good repair.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**maintenance**" is the **process of keeping something in proper working order or condition**, ensuring it remains functional.

**What it really means**: "**Maintenance**" is a noun that refers to the process of preserving a condition or situation or of keeping something in good repair. It is the act of keeping something working properly. For example, a person's car needs a lot of **maintenance**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the process of preserving a condition or situation or of keeping something in good repair.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "car **maintenance**," "building **maintenance**," "system **maintenance**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My car needs a lot of **maintenance**, so it's very expensive."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the **maintenance** of the country's infrastructure."
            * "The new law is designed to help the **maintenance** of the new system."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the **maintenance** of the country's infrastructure."
            * "The study examines how a person's **maintenance** of their health can affect their long-term happiness."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan for the **maintenance** of the new system."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the **maintenance** of the new products."

**Synonyms**: Upkeep, preservation, repair, servicing, conservation.

**Opposite words**: Neglect, deterioration, decay, disrepair.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *maintenir* (to hold in the hand, to maintain).



.. _compete:

================================================================================
Compete
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəmˈpiːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To strive to gain or win something by defeating or establishing superiority over others who are trying to do the same.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**compete**" is to **strive against others to achieve a goal or win a prize**, demonstrating a rivalry.

**What it really means**: To "**compete**" means to strive to gain or win something by defeating or establishing superiority over others who are trying to do the same. It is the act of trying to be better than others. For example, a person can **compete** in a race.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of striving to gain or win something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**compete** with," "**compete** for," "**compete** against."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to **compete** in a race this weekend, and I hope I win."
            * "The new company is trying to **compete** with other companies in the same industry."
            * "The new law is designed to help the country's companies **compete** with other countries."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the country's companies **compete** with other countries."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **compete** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help the country's companies **compete** in a new market."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the company **compete** with other companies."

**Synonyms**: Contend, rival, vie, challenge, struggle.

**Opposite words**: Cooperate, collaborate, unite, join.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *competere* (to come together, to be suitable).



.. _limitation:

================================================================================
Limitation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌlɪmɪˈteɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A restricting condition or measure.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**limitation**" is a **restricting condition or a boundary that constrains** or holds something back.

**What it really means**: "**Limitation**" is a noun that refers to a restricting condition or measure. It suggests that a person or a thing is not allowed to do something or is not allowed to have something. For example, a new law can have a lot of **limitations**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a restricting condition or measure.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **limitation** on," "a major **limitation**," "a legal **limitation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law has a lot of **limitations** on what you can and can't do."
            * "I am under a **limitation** that I can't leave the house after 10 PM."
            * "The new policy has a lot of **limitations** on the use of new technology."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **limitation** on the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **limitation** in a certain area can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **limitation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to have a number of **limitations** on its use."

**Synonyms**: Restriction, constraint, boundary, cap, drawback.

**Opposite words**: Freedom, liberty, advantage, opportunity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *limitare* (to bound, to limit).



.. _horizon:

================================================================================
Horizon
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/həˈraɪzən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The limit of a person's knowledge, experience, or interest.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**horizon**" is the **limit of what is visible or possible**, often used metaphorically to describe the scope of one's knowledge or plans.

**What it really means**: "**Horizon**" is a noun that refers to the limit of a person's knowledge, experience, or interest. It suggests that a person is not aware of something. For example, a person can have a narrow **horizon**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the limit of a person's knowledge, experience, or interest.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "expand one's **horizon**," "a narrow **horizon**," "on the **horizon**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I want to travel the world to expand my **horizon**."
            * "He has a very narrow **horizon**, and he doesn't know a lot about the world."
            * "The new policy is designed to expand the country's **horizon**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to expand the country's **horizon**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **horizon** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to expand the country's **horizon**."
            * "The new technology is designed to expand the company's **horizon**."

**Synonyms**: Scope, range, perspective, outlook, limit.

**Opposite words**: N/A

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *horizōn* (bounding).



.. _disturbing:

================================================================================
Disturbing
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstɜːrbɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Causing anxiety or worry.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**disturbing**" is to be **causing feelings of worry, anxiety, or unease**, disrupting a sense of calm.

**What it really means**: "**Disturbing**" is an adjective used to describe something that causes anxiety or worry. It suggests that something is upsetting or unsettling. For example, a new law can be **disturbing** for a lot of people.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that causes anxiety or worry.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **disturbing** report," "a **disturbing** trend," "a **disturbing** event."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new report is very **disturbing**, so I am worried about the future."
            * "The new law is very **disturbing** for a lot of people, so they are protesting."
            * "The new project is a very **disturbing** idea, so it should not be implemented."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is very **disturbing** for a lot of people."
            * "The study examines how a person's **disturbing** thoughts can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **disturbing** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is very **disturbing** for a lot of people."

**Synonyms**: Upsetting, unsettling, worrying, alarming, troubling.

**Opposite words**: Calming, reassuring, soothing, comforting, pleasant.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *disturbare* (to disturb).



.. _respectively:

================================================================================
Respectively
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈspɛktɪvli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Separately or individually in the order already mentioned.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**respectively**" is to be **in a way that corresponds to the order of a list**, connecting one list of items to a second list.

**What it really means**: "**Respectively**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done separately or individually in the order already mentioned. It suggests that a person or a thing is related to another person or thing in a certain order. For example, a person can have two jobs, and they are a doctor and a lawyer, **respectively**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done separately or individually in the order already mentioned.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "first and second, **respectively**," "A and B, **respectively**," "X and Y, **respectively**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have two jobs, and I am a doctor and a lawyer, **respectively**."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country's economy and social problems, **respectively**."
            * "The new law is designed to address the new problems and old problems, **respectively**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the country's economy and social problems, **respectively**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **respectively** different jobs can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the new problems and old problems, **respectively**."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the company's new products and old products, **respectively**."

**Synonyms**: Individually, separately, sequentially.

**Opposite words**: Collectively, jointly, together.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *respicere* (to look back).



.. _prepare:

================================================================================
Prepare
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈpɛər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To make (something) ready for use or consideration.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**prepare**" is to **make something ready for a future event or purpose**, getting it into a state of readiness.

**What it really means**: To "**prepare**" means to make something ready for use or consideration. It is the act of getting something ready. For example, a person can **prepare** for an exam.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of making something ready for use or consideration.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**prepare** for," "**prepare** a meal," "**prepare** for a trip."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **prepare** for my exam tomorrow, so I will study tonight."
            * "I need to **prepare** a meal for my family, so I will go to the store."
            * "The new law is designed to help people **prepare** for a new life in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people **prepare** for a new life in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **prepare** for a new career can affect their success."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **prepare** for a new project."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **prepare** for a new world."

**Synonyms**: Get ready, arrange, plan, organize, set up.

**Opposite words**: Neglect, ignore, postpone, forget.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praeparare* (to make ready beforehand).



.. _blind:

================================================================================
Blind
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/blaɪnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adj) Lacking the sense of sight; (Verb) To deprive (someone) of the sense of sight.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **unable to see**, lacking sight. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **cause someone to lose their sight**.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**blind**" describes someone who is unable to see. As a **verb**, to "**blind**" means to cause someone to lose their sight.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe a person who is unable to see, and the verb to describe the act of causing someone to lose their sight.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **blind** person," "**blind** faith," "turn a **blind** eye."
        * **(Verb)** "**blind** a person," "**blind** with a light."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is designed to help **blind** people in the country."
            * "He has a **blind** faith in the new leader, so he will follow him."
            * "I will turn a **blind** eye to what you did this time."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help **blind** people in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **blind** faith can affect their decision-making process."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **blind** spots in the new system."
            * "The new technology is designed to help **blind** people."

**Synonyms**: (Adj) Sightless, unsighted, unseeing; (Verb) Dazzle, obscure, deprive of sight.

**Opposite words**: (Adj) Seeing, sighted; (Verb) Enlighten, clarify.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *blind* (blind).



.. _dedicate:

================================================================================
Dedicate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɛdɪkeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To devote (time or effort) to a particular task or purpose.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**dedicate**" is to **devote time, effort, or oneself to a particular cause or purpose** with strong commitment.

**What it really means**: To "**dedicate**" means to devote time or effort to a particular task or purpose. It is the act of giving all of your time and effort to something. For example, a person can **dedicate** their life to helping others.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of devoting time or effort to a particular task or purpose.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**dedicate** time," "**dedicate** to," "**dedicate** oneself to."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to **dedicate** my life to helping others, so I will become a doctor."
            * "The new project requires a lot of time, so I need to **dedicate** a lot of my time to it."
            * "The new law is designed to help people **dedicate** their time to a new cause."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people **dedicate** their time to a new cause."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **dedicate** their time to a new skill can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help people **dedicate** their time to a new project."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **dedicate** their time to a new task."

**Synonyms**: Devote, commit, assign, consecrate, pledge.

**Opposite words**: Neglect, abandon, ignore, withdraw, forsake.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *dedicare* (to declare, to devote).



.. _sparingly:

================================================================================
Sparingly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈspɛərɪŋli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a restricted or limited way; in small quantities.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**sparingly**" is to be **in a way that is cautious, economical, or with restraint**, using a small amount.

**What it really means**: "**Sparingly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a restricted or limited way. It suggests that a person is using a small amount of something. For example, a person can use a new product **sparingly**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a restricted or limited way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "use **sparingly**," "add **sparingly**," "speak **sparingly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "You should use the new product **sparingly** because it is very expensive."
            * "I will add the salt to the new dish **sparingly** so that it is not too salty."
            * "He speaks **sparingly**, but when he does, he has something important to say."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people use the country's natural resources **sparingly**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **sparingly** use their money can affect their long-term wealth."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to use the new technology **sparingly**."
            * "The new technology is designed to be used **sparingly**."

**Synonyms**: Cautiously, moderately, lightly, frugally, economically.

**Opposite words**: Lavishly, generously, abundantly, wastefully.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *sparian* (to spare).



.. _recognise:

================================================================================
Recognise
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrɛkəɡnaɪz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To identify (someone or something) from having encountered them before; know again.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**recognise**" is to **identify someone or something that you have seen before** or to acknowledge a fact or achievement.

**What it really means**: To "**recognise**" means to identify someone or something from having encountered them before. It is the act of knowing something again. For example, a person can **recognise** an old friend.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of identifying someone or something from having encountered them before.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**recognise** a person," "**recognise** a problem," "**recognise** an achievement."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I haven't seen her in a long time, but I still **recognise** her."
            * "The new policy is designed to **recognise** the new problems in the country."
            * "I want to **recognise** your hard work on the new project."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **recognise** the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **recognise** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **recognise** a person's achievements."
            * "The new technology is designed to **recognise** a person's voice."

**Synonyms**: Identify, know, perceive, acknowledge, appreciate.

**Opposite words**: Ignore, overlook, fail to recognise, mistake.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *recognoscere* (to know again).



.. _frozen:

================================================================================
Frozen
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfroʊzən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Turned into ice or a similar solid as a result of extreme cold.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**frozen**" is to be **turned into a solid state by cold**, or to be unable to move, as if stuck.

**What it really means**: "**Frozen**" is an adjective used to describe something that is turned into ice or a similar solid as a result of extreme cold. It suggests that something is very cold and cannot be moved. For example, a person's food can be **frozen**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is turned into ice or a similar solid as a result of extreme cold.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**frozen** food," "**frozen** ground," "**frozen** assets."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to eat some **frozen** food for dinner tonight."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **frozen** assets of the new country."
            * "The new law is designed to help the **frozen** economy of the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **frozen** assets of the new country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **frozen** attitude can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **frozen** economy of the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the **frozen** economy of the country."

**Synonyms**: Iced, solid, immobilized, motionless, paralyzed.

**Opposite words**: Thawed, melted, fluid, moving, active.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *freosan* (to freeze).



.. _regret:

================================================================================
Regret
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈɡrɛt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A feeling of sadness, repentance, or disappointment over something that has happened or been done; (Verb) To feel sad, repentant, or disappointed over something that has happened or been done.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **feeling of sadness or disappointment** about a past event or choice. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **feel sorry or remorseful** for a past action.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**regret**" is a feeling of sadness, repentance, or disappointment over something that has happened or been done. As a **verb**, to "**regret**" means to feel sad, repentant, or disappointed over something that has happened or been done.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a feeling of sadness, and the verb to describe the act of feeling sad.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "have a lot of **regret**," "a sense of **regret**," "no **regrets**."
        * **(Verb)** "**regret** doing something," "**regret** a decision," "**regret** a mistake."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a lot of **regret** for not studying for my exam, so I failed it."
            * "I **regret** my decision to buy the new car, because it is very expensive."
            * "I have no **regrets** for what I did, because I did what I thought was right."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a source of **regret** for a lot of people."
            * "The study examines how a person's **regret** for a past decision can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **regret** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a source of **regret** for a lot of people."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Remorse, sorrow, repentance, disappointment; (Verb) Lament, mourn, repent, rue.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Satisfaction, contentment, joy; (Verb) Be happy with, be glad about.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *regreter* (to bewail).



.. _disqualify:

================================================================================
Disqualify
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪsˈkwɒlɪfaɪ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To officially declare (someone) ineligible to participate in an activity or competition.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**disqualify**" is to **officially declare someone as ineligible or unfit** for a competition or position, removing their right to participate.

**What it really means**: To "**disqualify**" means to officially declare someone ineligible to participate in an activity or competition. It is the act of removing a person's right to participate. For example, a person can be **disqualified** from a race if they cheat.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of officially declaring someone ineligible to participate in an activity or competition.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**disqualify** from," "**disqualify** for," "**disqualify** a person."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was **disqualified** from the race because he cheated."
            * "The new law is designed to **disqualify** a person from a new job if they have a criminal record."
            * "The new policy is designed to **disqualify** a person from a new program."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **disqualify** a person from a new program."
            * "The study examines how a person's **disqualify** from a new job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **disqualify** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **disqualify** a person from a new program."

**Synonyms**: Eliminate, bar, exclude, ban, ineligible.

**Opposite words**: Qualify, enable, allow, permit, authorize.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *dis* (apart) and *qualis* (of what kind).

.. _irregular:

================================================================================
Irregular
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈrɛɡjələr/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not regular in shape, arrangement, or pattern.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**irregular**" is **lacking a consistent or predictable pattern, shape, or schedule**, deviating from what is normal or expected.

**What it really means**: "**Irregular**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not regular in shape, arrangement, or pattern. It suggests that something is not consistent or predictable. For example, a person can have an **irregular** heartbeat, or a new building can have an **irregular** shape.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not regular in shape, arrangement, or pattern.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**irregular** heartbeat," "**irregular** shape," "**irregular** schedule."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My heartbeat is **irregular**, so I need to see a doctor."
            * "The new building has an **irregular** shape, so it is very unique."
            * "I have an **irregular** schedule, so I can't plan a lot of things."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is an **irregular** one, and it is not consistent with the old one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **irregular** heartbeat can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **irregular** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **irregular** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Uneven, inconsistent, asymmetrical, abnormal, erratic.

**Opposite words**: Regular, consistent, even, symmetrical, normal.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *in-* (not) and *regula* (rule).



.. _transformation:

================================================================================
Transformation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌtrænsfəˈmeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A marked change in form, nature, or appearance.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**transformation**" is a **complete and significant change in form, character, or function**, often leading to an improved state.

**What it really means**: "**Transformation**" is a noun that refers to a marked change in form, nature, or appearance. It suggests that a person or a thing has changed completely. For example, a new project can lead to a **transformation** of a company, or a new law can lead to a **transformation** of a country.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a marked change in form, nature, or appearance.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a complete **transformation**," "a dramatic **transformation**," "a personal **transformation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new project led to a complete **transformation** of the company, and it is now a market leader."
            * "He had a personal **transformation** after he started to exercise and eat healthy."
            * "The new law is designed to lead to a **transformation** of the country's economy."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to lead to a **transformation** of the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **transformation** of their life can affect their happiness."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **transformation** of a new system."
            * "The new technology is a **transformation** of the old one."

**Synonyms**: Change, alteration, conversion, metamorphosis, evolution.

**Opposite words**: Stagnation, continuation, stability, permanence.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *transformare* (to change in shape).



.. _essential:

================================================================================
Essential
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈsɛnʃəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Absolutely necessary.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**essential**" is to be **absolutely necessary or fundamental to the existence or success of something**.

**What it really means**: "**Essential**" is an adjective used to describe something that is absolutely necessary. It suggests that a person or a thing cannot do without something. For example, food and water are **essential** for survival.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is absolutely necessary.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**essential** for," "**essential** to," "**essential** ingredient."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "Food and water are **essential** for survival."
            * "A good education is **essential** for a successful career."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **essential** needs of the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **essential** needs of the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **essential** skills can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **essential** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is an **essential** tool for all employees."

**Synonyms**: Vital, crucial, necessary, fundamental, indispensable.

**Opposite words**: Unnecessary, nonessential, optional, superfluous, trivial.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *essentia* (being, essence).



.. _memorial:

================================================================================
Memorial
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/məˈmɔːriəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A statue, building, or other structure established to remind people of a person or event; (Adj) Serving as a memorial.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is an object or a ceremony that **serves as a reminder of a person, event, or group**, preserving their memory. The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **intended to commemorate**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**memorial**" is a statue, building, or other structure established to remind people of a person or event. As an **adjective**, "**memorial**" means serving as a memorial. For example, a new park can be a **memorial** to a great leader.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a statue, building, or other structure established to remind people of a person or event. Use the adjective to describe something that serves as a memorial.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a war **memorial**," "a public **memorial**," "a **memorial** service."
        * **(Adjective)** "**memorial** plaque," "**memorial** stone."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new park is a **memorial** to a great leader, so it is a very important place."
            * "The new law is designed to create a **memorial** to the new heroes in the country."
            * "I am going to attend the **memorial** service for my grandfather."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to create a **memorial** to the new heroes in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **memorial** to a lost loved one can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to create a **memorial** to a new event."
            * "The new technology is a **memorial** to the old one."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Monument, commemoration, remembrance, tribute; (Adj) Commemorative, dedicatory.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Oblivion, forgetfulness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *memorialis* (relating to memory).



.. _distinct:

================================================================================
Distinct
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstɪŋkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Clearly different or separate.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**distinct**" is to be **clearly different from something else**, making it easily identifiable or noticeable.

**What it really means**: "**Distinct**" is an adjective used to describe something that is clearly different or separate. It suggests that a person or a thing is very unique. For example, a new building can have a **distinct** design, or a new country can have a **distinct** culture.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is clearly different or separate.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **distinct** difference," "a **distinct** design," "a **distinct** culture."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new building has a **distinct** design, so it is very unique."
            * "The new country has a **distinct** culture, so it is very interesting."
            * "The new law is designed to have a **distinct** impact on the country's economy."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to have a **distinct** impact on the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's **distinct** personality can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **distinct** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology has a **distinct** design, so it is very unique."

**Synonyms**: Separate, different, unique, individual, specific.

**Opposite words**: Indistinct, similar, same, identical, ambiguous.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *distinguere* (to separate, to distinguish).



.. _opposition:

================================================================================
Opposition
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɒpəˈzɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A resistance or dissent expressed in action or argument.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**opposition**" is the **act of resisting, disagreeing with, or standing against something**, often in a political or social context.

**What it really means**: "**Opposition**" is a noun that refers to a resistance or dissent expressed in action or argument. It suggests that a person or a thing is against something. For example, a new law can face a lot of **opposition** from the public.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a resistance or dissent expressed in action or argument.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "strong **opposition**," "in **opposition** to," "the political **opposition**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law faced a lot of **opposition** from the public, so it was not implemented."
            * "The new policy is in **opposition** to the old one, so it will not be implemented."
            * "The new leader has a lot of **opposition** from the political parties."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is in **opposition** to the old one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **opposition** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **opposition** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is facing a lot of **opposition** from the old one."

**Synonyms**: Resistance, disagreement, conflict, defiance, protest.

**Opposite words**: Agreement, support, acceptance, approval, harmony.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *opponere* (to set against).



.. _differentiate:

================================================================================
Differentiate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdɪfəˈrɛnʃieɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To recognize or ascertain what makes (someone or something) different.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**differentiate**" is to **recognize or show the difference between two or more things**, making them distinct from one another.

**What it really means**: To "**differentiate**" means to recognize or ascertain what makes someone or something different. It is the act of telling the difference between two things. For example, it can be hard to **differentiate** between two very similar products.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of recognizing or ascertaining what makes someone or something different.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**differentiate** between," "**differentiate** from," "**differentiate** a product."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I can't **differentiate** between the two products, so I don't know which one to buy."
            * "The new policy is designed to **differentiate** between a good and a bad behavior."
            * "The new law is designed to **differentiate** between a good and a bad country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **differentiate** between a good and a bad behavior."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **differentiate** between two ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **differentiate** between a new and an old problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to **differentiate** between a new and an old product."

**Synonyms**: Distinguish, contrast, separate, discriminate, discern.

**Opposite words**: Confuse, mix up, equate, unify, homogenize.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *differre* (to carry apart, to differ).



.. _command:

================================================================================
Command
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˈmɑːnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To give an authoritative order; (Noun) An authoritative order.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **give an authoritative order** or to be in charge of something. The core meaning of the **noun** is an **authoritative instruction or a position of control**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**command**" means to give an authoritative order. As a **noun**, a "**command**" is an authoritative order. For example, a leader can **command** their soldiers to attack, or a new law can be a **command** from the government.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of giving an authoritative order, and the noun to refer to an authoritative order.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**command** a person," "**command** a group," "**command** an order."
        * **(Noun)** "a direct **command**," "a clear **command**," "under my **command**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The leader **command** the soldiers to attack, and they did it."
            * "The new law is a **command** from the government, so we have to follow it."
            * "I am in **command** of this project, so you have to listen to me."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **command** from the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **command** a group can affect their leadership skills."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **command** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a **command** from the new company."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Order, instruct, direct, mandate; (Noun) Order, directive, decree, instruction.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Plead, beg, request; (Noun) Request, plea, entreaty.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *commandare* (to commit, to entrust).



.. _casually:

================================================================================
Casually
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkæʒʊəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a relaxed and informal way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**casually**" is to be **in a relaxed, informal, or unplanned manner**, without much thought or formality.

**What it really means**: "**Casually**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a relaxed and informal way. It suggests that a person is not taking something too seriously. For example, a person can be **casually** dressed, or a person can talk **casually** about a new topic.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a relaxed and informal way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "dressed **casually**," "talk **casually**," "walk **casually**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am dressed **casually** today because I am not going to work."
            * "We talked **casually** about the new project, and we came up with a great idea."
            * "He walked **casually** into the room, and he didn't seem to be worried."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is not a formal one, but a **casually** implemented one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **casually** approach to a new problem can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **casually** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to be used **casually** by all employees."

**Synonyms**: Informally, relaxedly, unceremoniously, nonchalantly.

**Opposite words**: Formally, seriously, stiffly, ceremoniously.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *casualis* (relating to a chance).



.. _hesitation:

================================================================================
Hesitation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌhɛzɪˈteɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of pausing before saying or doing something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**hesitation**" is the **act of pausing or being reluctant before acting or speaking**, often due to uncertainty or doubt.

**What it really means**: "**Hesitation**" is a noun that refers to the action of pausing before saying or doing something. It suggests that a person is not sure about something. For example, a person can have a lot of **hesitation** before they make a big decision.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of pausing before saying or doing something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a moment's **hesitation**," "without **hesitation**," "no **hesitation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I had a moment's **hesitation** before I made the big decision, but I am happy with it now."
            * "The new law was implemented without any **hesitation** from the government."
            * "He answered the question without any **hesitation**, so he knew the answer."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy was implemented without any **hesitation** from the government."
            * "The study examines how a person's **hesitation** can affect their decision-making process."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **hesitation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology was implemented without any **hesitation** from the new company."

**Synonyms**: Doubt, uncertainty, reluctance, indecision, pause.

**Opposite words**: Certainty, decisiveness, confidence, resolve, promptness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *haesitare* (to stick fast, to hesitate).



.. _violation:

================================================================================
Violation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌvaɪəˈleɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of violating something; an act of disrespect or disrespect.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**violation**" is the **act of breaking or failing to comply with a law, rule, or agreement**.

**What it really means**: "**Violation**" is a noun that refers to the action of violating something. It suggests that a person has done something that is against the law or a rule. For example, a person can be punished for a **violation** of the law.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of violating something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a serious **violation**," "in **violation** of," "a **violation** of human rights."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was punished for a **violation** of the law, so he went to jail."
            * "The new policy is a **violation** of human rights, so it should not be implemented."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **violation** of the old law."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **violation** of human rights."
            * "The study examines how a person's **violation** of a new rule can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **violation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a **violation** of the old one."

**Synonyms**: Breach, infringement, contravention, transgression, trespass.

**Opposite words**: Compliance, adherence, observance, respect, obedience.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *violare* (to treat with violence, to injure).



.. _complaint:

================================================================================
Complaint
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəmˈpleɪnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A statement that something is unsatisfactory or unacceptable.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**complaint**" is an **expression of dissatisfaction, unhappiness, or grievance** about something.

**What it really means**: A "**complaint**" is a noun that refers to a statement that something is unsatisfactory or unacceptable. It is the act of expressing dissatisfaction. For example, a person can make a **complaint** about a new product.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a statement that something is unsatisfactory or unacceptable.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make a **complaint**," "a formal **complaint**," "a lot of **complaints**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a lot of **complaints** about the new product, so I am going to return it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **complaints** of the public."
            * "The new law is a result of a lot of **complaints** from the public."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **complaints** of the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **complaints** about a new job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **complaints** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a result of a lot of **complaints** from the old one."

**Synonyms**: Grievance, protest, objection, grumbling, dissatisfaction.

**Opposite words**: Praise, compliment, approval, satisfaction.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *compleinte* (lamentation).



.. _boost:

================================================================================
Boost
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/buːst/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To help or encourage (something) to increase or improve; (Noun) A source of help or encouragement.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **help or encourage something to increase or improve**, giving it a lift. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **source of help or encouragement that leads to an increase or improvement**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**boost**" means to help or encourage something to increase or improve. As a **noun**, a "**boost**" is a source of help or encouragement. For example, a new policy can **boost** a country's economy, or a new project can give a company a **boost**.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of helping or encouraging something to increase or improve, and the noun to refer to a source of help or encouragement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**boost** the economy," "**boost** morale," "**boost** a career."
        * **(Noun)** "a **boost** to morale," "a confidence **boost**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is designed to **boost** the country's economy."
            * "I am going to buy a new car to give myself a **boost**."
            * "The new project is a **boost** to the company's morale."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **boost** the country's economy."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **boost** their morale can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to give a **boost** to a new project."
            * "The new technology is designed to give a **boost** to the company's productivity."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Increase, enhance, raise, promote, stimulate; (Noun) Increase, lift, stimulus, improvement.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Decrease, lower, hinder, depress; (Noun) Decrease, setback, obstacle, detriment.

**Where it comes from**: From Middle English *boste* (to boast).



.. _precisely:

================================================================================
Precisely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈsaɪsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a precise manner; exactly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**precisely**" is to be **in an exact, accurate, or careful manner**, leaving no room for error or ambiguity.

**What it really means**: "**Precisely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a precise manner. It suggests that a person is doing something exactly as it should be done. For example, a person can measure something **precisely**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a precise manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "measure **precisely**," "explain **precisely**," "state **precisely**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to measure the ingredients **precisely** to make the new cake."
            * "He explained the new policy **precisely**, so everyone understood it."
            * "The new law is designed to address the new problems **precisely**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the new problems **precisely**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **precisely** explain a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the new problems **precisely**."
            * "The new technology is designed to measure things **precisely**."

**Synonyms**: Exactly, accurately, correctly, specifically, explicitly.

**Opposite words**: Imprecisely, vaguely, loosely, roughly, generally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praecidere* (to cut off).



.. _violate:

================================================================================
Violate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvaɪəleɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To break or fail to comply with (a rule or formal agreement).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**violate**" is to **break or fail to comply with a law, rule, or agreement**, often in a way that is disrespectful or harmful.

**What it really means**: To "**violate**" means to break or fail to comply with a rule or formal agreement. It is the act of doing something that is against the law or a rule. For example, a person can **violate** the law if they speed.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of breaking or failing to comply with a rule or formal agreement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**violate** the law," "**violate** a rule," "**violate** a contract."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He will **violate** the law if he speeds, so he should not do it."
            * "The new policy is designed to prevent people from **violating** the new rules."
            * "The new law is designed to punish people who **violate** the old law."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to prevent people from **violating** the new rules."
            * "The study examines how a person's **violate** of a new rule can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **violate** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from **violating** the new rules."

**Synonyms**: Break, infringe, breach, transgress, disobey.

**Opposite words**: Obey, comply, follow, honor, respect.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *violare* (to treat with violence, to injure).



.. _prospect:

================================================================================
Prospect
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɒspɛkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The possibility or likelihood of some future event occurring.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**prospect**" is a **future possibility, an expectation, or a potential outcome**, often with a sense of hope or anticipation.

**What it really means**: "**Prospect**" is a noun that refers to the possibility or likelihood of some future event occurring. It suggests that a person or a thing has a good chance of doing something. For example, a new company can have a good **prospect** of success.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the possibility or likelihood of some future event occurring.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a good **prospect**," "the **prospect** of," "a future **prospect**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company has a good **prospect** of success, so I am going to invest in it."
            * "The **prospect** of a new job is very exciting, so I am very happy."
            * "The new law is designed to improve the **prospects** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to improve the **prospects** of a new country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **prospect** of a new career can affect their motivation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to improve the **prospects** of a new project."
            * "The new technology is a good **prospect** for the company's future."

**Synonyms**: Possibility, potential, chance, outlook, future.

**Opposite words**: Impossibility, unlikelihood, hopelessness, certainty (in some contexts).

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *prospectus* (view, outlook).



.. _elimination:

================================================================================
Elimination
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˌlɪmɪˈneɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The complete removal or destruction of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**elimination**" is the **process of getting rid of something completely** or removing it from a group or system.

**What it really means**: "**Elimination**" is a noun that refers to the complete removal or destruction of something. It is the act of getting rid of something. For example, the **elimination** of a disease can be a great achievement.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the complete removal or destruction of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the **elimination** of," "a process of **elimination**," "complete **elimination**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The **elimination** of the new disease is a great achievement for the country."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the **elimination** of a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **elimination** of the old law."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the **elimination** of a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **elimination** of a bad habit can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **elimination** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the **elimination** of a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Removal, eradication, destruction, obliteration, termination.

**Opposite words**: Introduction, creation, establishment, inclusion, addition.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *eliminare* (to put out of the threshold).



.. _abuse:

================================================================================
Abuse
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈbjuːs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) The improper use of something; (Verb) To use something improperly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is the **improper or harmful use of something** or the mistreatment of a person. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **use something improperly or to mistreat someone**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**abuse**" is the improper use of something. As a **verb**, to "**abuse**" means to use something improperly. It can also refer to the act of treating a person badly. For example, a person can **abuse** their power, or a person can be a victim of **abuse**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to the improper use of something. Use the verb to refer to the act of using something improperly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "power **abuse**," "substance **abuse**," "child **abuse**."
        * **(Verb)** "**abuse** power," "**abuse** a person," "**abuse** a privilege."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is designed to prevent the **abuse** of power."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **abuse** of new technology."
            * "He was a victim of **abuse**, so he needs a lot of help."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to prevent the **abuse** of power."
            * "The study examines how a person's **abuse** of a new privilege can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **abuse** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent the **abuse** of new information."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Misuse, mistreatment, exploitation, harm; (Verb) Misuse, mistreat, harm, violate.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Proper use, care, protection; (Verb) Use properly, protect, care for.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *abusus* (misuse).



.. _consistently:

================================================================================
Consistently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈsɪstəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In every case or on every occasion; invariably.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**consistently**" is to be **in a way that is unchanging or reliable over time**, always acting in the same manner.

**What it really means**: "**Consistently**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in every case or on every occasion. It suggests that a person or a thing is very reliable and predictable. For example, a person can **consistently** get a good grade on an exam.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in every case or on every occasion.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**consistently** good," "**consistently** bad," "**consistently** high."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **consistently** gets a good grade on an exam, so he is a very smart student."
            * "The new policy is **consistently** good, so it will be implemented."
            * "The new law is **consistently** bad, so it will be changed."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **consistently** good, and it will have a lot of positive effects."
            * "The study examines how a person's **consistently** good attitude can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **consistently** bad problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **consistently** good, so it will be widely used."

**Synonyms**: Always, invariably, constantly, steadily, reliably.

**Opposite words**: Inconsistently, erratically, sporadically, unreliably.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *consistere* (to stand together, to be firm).



.. _rejection:

================================================================================
Rejection
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈdʒɛkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of rejecting; a refusal to accept or consider.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**rejection**" is the **act of refusing to accept, approve, or consider something**, a dismissal.

**What it really means**: "**Rejection**" is a noun that refers to the act of rejecting something. It is a refusal to accept or consider something. For example, a person can get a **rejection** letter from a new job.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of rejecting something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "face **rejection**," "a letter of **rejection**," "a feeling of **rejection**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I got a **rejection** letter from the new job, so I am very sad."
            * "The new policy faced a lot of **rejection** from the public, so it was not implemented."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent the **rejection** of new ideas."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy faced a lot of **rejection** from the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **rejection** from a new job can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **rejection** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is facing a lot of **rejection** from the old one."

**Synonyms**: Refusal, dismissal, denial, refusal, repudiation.

**Opposite words**: Acceptance, approval, welcome, adoption, consideration.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *reicere* (to throw back).



.. _resolve:

================================================================================
Resolve
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈzɒlv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To settle or find a solution to (a problem, dispute, or contentious matter); (Noun) Firm determination to do something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **find a solution to a problem** or to make a firm decision. The core meaning of the **noun** is **firm determination** or a strong intention.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**resolve**" means to settle or find a solution to a problem. As a **noun**, "**resolve**" is firm determination to do something. For example, a person can **resolve** a problem, or a person can have a strong **resolve** to succeed.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of settling or finding a solution to a problem, and the noun to refer to firm determination.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**resolve** a problem," "**resolve** a dispute," "**resolve** an issue."
        * **(Noun)** "firm **resolve**," "a lack of **resolve**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **resolve** this problem before the deadline."
            * "I have a strong **resolve** to succeed, so I will not give up."
            * "The new law is designed to **resolve** the new problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **resolve** the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **resolve** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **resolve** a new problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to **resolve** the new problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Solve, settle, fix, determine, decide; (Noun) Determination, willpower, firmness, conviction, purpose.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Aggravate, complicate, ignore; (Noun) Indecision, hesitation, weakness, vacillation.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *resolvere* (to loosen, to undo).



.. _intensely:

================================================================================
Intensely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈtɛnsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: With extreme force or severity.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**intensely**" is to be **in a concentrated, powerful, or extreme manner**, with great force or feeling.

**What it really means**: "**Intensely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done with extreme force or severity. It suggests that a person is doing something with a lot of passion and emotion. For example, a person can **intensely** focus on a new project.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with extreme force or severity.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**intensely** focused," "**intensely** bright," "**intensely** cold."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am **intensely** focused on this new project, so I will not be distracted."
            * "The new policy is **intensely** debated, so it is a very important topic."
            * "The new law is **intensely** discussed, so it will have a big impact."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **intensely** debated, and it will have a lot of positive and negative effects."
            * "The study examines how a person's **intensely** focused approach to a new problem can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **intensely** discussed problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **intensely** bright, so it is very powerful."

**Synonyms**: Fiercely, powerfully, extremely, severely, deeply.

**Opposite words**: Mildly, gently, lightly, moderately, faintly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *intendere* (to stretch out, to aim at).



.. _mystery:

================================================================================
Mystery
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɪstəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: Something that is difficult or impossible to understand or explain.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**mystery**" is something that is **unexplained, puzzling, or secret**, a situation or event whose cause is not known.

**What it really means**: A "**mystery**" is a noun that refers to something that is difficult or impossible to understand or explain. It suggests that something is a puzzle and a person does not know the answer. For example, the **mystery** of the universe is very interesting.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to something that is difficult or impossible to understand or explain.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a complete **mystery**," "solve a **mystery**," "the **mystery** of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The **mystery** of the new problem is very interesting, so I want to solve it."
            * "The new policy is a **mystery** to a lot of people, so they don't know what to do."
            * "The new law is a **mystery** to the public, so they are not happy about it."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **mystery** to a lot of people."
            * "The study examines how a person's **mystery** about a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **mystery** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a **mystery** to a lot of people."

**Synonyms**: Puzzle, enigma, riddle, conundrum, secret.

**Opposite words**: Explanation, solution, clarity, certainty, fact.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *mysterium* (a secret rite or doctrine).



.. _substance:

================================================================================
Substance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsʌbstəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A particular kind of matter with uniform properties.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**substance**" is a **type of matter or a physical material**. It can also refer to the **most important or essential part of something**.

**What it really means**: "**Substance**" is a noun that refers to a particular kind of matter with uniform properties. It can also refer to the most important part of something. For example, a new product can have a new **substance**, or a new report can have a lot of **substance**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a particular kind of matter with uniform properties, or to the most important part of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a harmful **substance**," "the **substance** of an argument," "the **substance** of the matter."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new product has a new **substance**, and it is very good for your health."
            * "The new report has a lot of **substance**, so it is very useful."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **substance** of the new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **substance** of the new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **substance** use can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **substance** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a new **substance** that can be used to make new products."

**Synonyms**: Material, matter, essence, core, gist, significance.

**Opposite words**: Insignificance, triviality, triviality.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *substantia* (being, essence).



.. _recovery:

================================================================================
Recovery
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈkʌvəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A return to a normal state of health, mind, or strength.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**recovery**" is the **process of returning to a normal or healthy state** after an illness, injury, or difficult period.

**What it really means**: "**Recovery**" is a noun that refers to a return to a normal state of health, mind, or strength. It is the act of getting better after a problem. For example, a person can have a quick **recovery** after a new disease.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a return to a normal state of health, mind, or strength.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a quick **recovery**," "a full **recovery**," "a long **recovery**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I had a quick **recovery** after the new disease, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to help the country's economic **recovery**."
            * "The new law is designed to help a person's **recovery** after a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help the country's economic **recovery**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **recovery** from a new problem can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **recovery** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help a person's **recovery** after a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Restoration, healing, rehabilitation, revival, recuperation.

**Opposite words**: Decline, deterioration, setback, relapse.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *recovrer* (to recover).



.. _subscription:

================================================================================
Subscription
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səbˈskrɪpʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An amount of money that you pay regularly to receive a service, product, or membership.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**subscription**" is a **regular payment made to receive a product, service, or membership** for a set period.

**What it really means**: A "**subscription**" is a noun that refers to an amount of money that you pay regularly to receive a service, product, or membership. It is the act of paying for something on a regular basis. For example, a person can have a **subscription** to a new magazine.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an amount of money that you pay regularly to receive a service, product, or membership.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a monthly **subscription**," "a yearly **subscription**," "a **subscription** service."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a monthly **subscription** to the new magazine, so I get it every month."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people get a **subscription** to a new service."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **subscription** of a new product."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people get a **subscription** to a new service."
            * "The study examines how a person's **subscription** to a new magazine can affect their knowledge."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **subscription** of a new product."
            * "The new technology is a **subscription** service."

**Synonyms**: Membership, fee, contribution, payment, enrollment.

**Opposite words**: Cancellation, unsubscribing, termination.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *subscribere* (to write underneath, to subscribe).



.. _immensely:

================================================================================
Immensely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈmɛnsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a great extent; extremely.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**immensely**" is to be **to a great degree, extremely, or hugely**, often used to emphasize a quality or quantity.

**What it really means**: "**Immensely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to a great extent. It suggests that a person or a thing is very big or very important. For example, a new project can be **immensely** successful.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to a great extent.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**immensely** successful," "**immensely** popular," "**immensely** important."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new project was **immensely** successful, and the company made a lot of money."
            * "The new policy is **immensely** popular with the public, so it will be implemented."
            * "The new law is **immensely** important, so it will have a big impact."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **immensely** popular with the public."
            * "The study examines how a person's **immensely** successful career can affect their happiness."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **immensely** important problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **immensely** popular, so it will be widely used."

**Synonyms**: Extremely, hugely, greatly, vastly, enormously.

**Opposite words**: Slightly, barely, insignificantly, negligibly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *immensus* (immeasurable).



.. _thrown:

================================================================================
Thrown
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/θroʊn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To propel with force through the air by a movement of the arm and hand.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**thrown**" is the **past participle of 'throw'**, meaning to have propelled something through the air with force. It can also mean to have been put into a state or situation.

**What it really means**: "**Thrown**" is the past participle of the verb "throw". It is the act of propelling something with force through the air. For example, a person can have **thrown** a ball.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of propelling something with force through the air.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**thrown** a ball," "**thrown** a party," "**thrown** into a situation."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have **thrown** the ball to my dog, and he caught it."
            * "I was **thrown** into a new situation, and I didn't know what to do."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who have been **thrown** into poverty."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who have been **thrown** into poverty."
            * "The study examines how a person's **thrown** into a new job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **thrown** into a new situation."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the people who have been **thrown** into a new world."

**Synonyms**: Hurled, cast, flung, tossed, pitched.

**Opposite words**: Caught, received, held, kept.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *throwan* (to turn, to twist).



.. _impatiently:

================================================================================
Impatiently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪmˈpeɪʃəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: With a feeling of impatience; eagerly or with annoyance.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**impatiently**" is to be **in a way that shows a lack of patience or a sense of annoyance** at a delay.

**What it really means**: "**Impatiently**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done with a feeling of impatience. It suggests that a person is not willing to wait. For example, a person can wait **impatiently** for a new movie to be released.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with a feeling of impatience.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "wait **impatiently**," "speak **impatiently**," "look **impatiently**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am waiting **impatiently** for the new movie to be released, so I can watch it."
            * "He spoke **impatiently** to me, so I didn't want to talk to him anymore."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who are waiting **impatiently** for a new change."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who are waiting **impatiently** for a new change."
            * "The study examines how a person's **impatiently** attitude can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **impatiently** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the people who are waiting **impatiently** for a new change."

**Synonyms**: Eagerly, restlessly, anxiously, irritably, crossly.

**Opposite words**: Patiently, calmly, placidly, tolerantly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *impatientia* (lack of patience).



.. _easily:

================================================================================
Easily
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈiːzɪli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Without difficulty or effort.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**easily**" is to be **without difficulty or effort**, indicating that a task is simple to perform.

**What it really means**: "**Easily**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done without difficulty or effort. It suggests that a person is doing something that is very simple. For example, a person can **easily** learn a new skill.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without difficulty or effort.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "learn **easily**," "do it **easily**," "win **easily**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I can **easily** learn a new skill, so I am very happy."
            * "The new project is very simple, so I can do it **easily**."
            * "The new law is designed to be **easily** understood by everyone."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be **easily** understood by everyone."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **easily** learn a new skill can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **easily** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to be **easily** used by all employees."

**Synonyms**: Simply, effortlessly, smoothly, readily, with ease.

**Opposite words**: With difficulty, hardly, laboriously, arduously.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *ais* (ease).



.. _occur:

================================================================================
Occur
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈkɜːr/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To happen; take place.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**occur**" is to **happen, take place, or be found to exist**, signifying an event or presence.

**What it really means**: To "**occur**" means to happen or take place. It is the act of something happening. For example, a new event can **occur**, or a new problem can **occur**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of something happening or taking place.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**occur** to me," "**occur** in," "**occur** during."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "A new problem will **occur** if we don't fix the old one."
            * "The new event will **occur** during the new year."
            * "It **occurred** to me that I forgot to do my homework."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that a new problem will **occur** if the old one is not fixed."
            * "The study examines how a person's **occurrence** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **occurrence** of a new problem."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent a new problem from **occurring**."

**Synonyms**: Happen, take place, arise, transpire, crop up.

**Opposite words**: Cease, stop, disappear, vanish.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *occurrere* (to run to meet, to happen).



.. _extend:

================================================================================
Extend
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈstɛnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To stretch out or be a specified length.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**extend**" is to **stretch out, lengthen, or enlarge something**, making it cover a greater area or period of time.

**What it really means**: To "**extend**" means to stretch out or be a specified length. It is the act of making something bigger or longer. For example, a person can **extend** their arm, or a new law can **extend** for a long time.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of stretching out or being a specified length.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**extend** a deadline," "**extend** a hand," "**extend** a period of time."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **extend** the deadline for the new project, so I will talk to my boss."
            * "He **extended** his hand to me, so I shook it."
            * "The new law is designed to **extend** for a long time."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **extend** for a long time."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **extend** their knowledge can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **extend** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **extend** the life of a new product."

**Synonyms**: Lengthen, stretch, prolong, enlarge, expand.

**Opposite words**: Shorten, reduce, curtail, contract, abbreviate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *extendere* (to stretch out).



.. _loudly:

================================================================================
Loudly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈlaʊdli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: With a high volume; in a way that can be clearly heard.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**loudly**" is to be **in a way that produces a great volume of sound**, making it easy to hear.

**What it really means**: "**Loudly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done with a high volume. It suggests that a person is speaking or making a lot of noise. For example, a person can speak **loudly**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with a high volume.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "speak **loudly**," "laugh **loudly**," "play music **loudly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He spoke **loudly** so that everyone could hear him."
            * "I was so happy that I laughed **loudly**."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who play music **loudly**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who play music **loudly**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to speak **loudly** can affect their public speaking skills."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **loudly** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to play music **loudly**."

**Synonyms**: Noisily, boisterously, vociferously, audibly.

**Opposite words**: Quietly, softly, silently, discreetly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *hlūd* (loud).



.. _possession:

================================================================================
Possession
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pəˈzɛʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of having, owning, or controlling something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**possession**" is the **state of owning or having control over something**. It can also refer to the thing that is owned.

**What it really means**: "**Possession**" is a noun that refers to the state of having, owning, or controlling something. It suggests that a person has something that belongs to them. For example, a person's car is their **possession**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of having, owning, or controlling something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "in **possession** of," "take **possession** of," "personal **possessions**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My new car is my most valuable **possession**."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **possession** of illegal items."
            * "I am in **possession** of the new key, so I can open the new door."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **possession** of illegal items."
            * "The study examines how a person's **possession** of a new skill can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **possession** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a valuable **possession** for the company."

**Synonyms**: Ownership, control, holding, property, belonging.

**Opposite words**: Lack, deprivation, dispossession, loss.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *possidere* (to possess).



.. _deprivation:

================================================================================
Deprivation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdɛprɪˈveɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The damaging lack of material benefits considered to be basic necessities in a society.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**deprivation**" is the **damaging lack of something that is necessary or desirable**, such as food, sleep, or a comfortable environment.

**What it really means**: "**Deprivation**" is a noun that refers to the damaging lack of material benefits considered to be basic necessities in a society. It suggests that a person is not getting what they need to survive. For example, a person can suffer from sleep **deprivation**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the damaging lack of material benefits considered to be basic necessities in a society.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "sleep **deprivation**," "material **deprivation**," "social **deprivation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am suffering from sleep **deprivation**, so I am very tired."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **deprivation** of a new service."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **deprivation** of a new right."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **deprivation** of a new service."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deprivation** of a new skill can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **deprivation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **deprivation** of a new resource."

**Synonyms**: Disadvantage, poverty, destitution, hardship, loss.

**Opposite words**: Abundance, wealth, plenty, luxury, provision.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deprivare* (to take away).



.. _abandon:

================================================================================
Abandon
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈbændən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To cease to support or look after; (Noun) Complete lack of inhibition or restraint.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **leave something or someone behind completely and permanently**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **complete lack of restraint** or inhibition.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**abandon**" means to cease to support or look after someone or something. As a **noun**, "**abandon**" is a complete lack of inhibition or restraint. For example, a person can **abandon** a project, or a person can dance with **abandon**.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of ceasing to support or look after someone or something, and the noun to refer to a complete lack of inhibition or restraint.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**abandon** a project," "**abandon** a child," "**abandon** a plan."
        * **(Noun)** "with complete **abandon**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I had to **abandon** the new project because it was too difficult."
            * "I am going to **abandon** my old car and buy a new one."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent people from **abandoning** their children."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to prevent people from **abandoning** their children."
            * "The study examines how a person's **abandon** of a new project can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **abandon** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is a **abandon** of the old one."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Desert, forsake, give up, relinquish; (Noun) Uninhibitedness, wildness, recklessness.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Support, keep, maintain, cherish; (Noun) Restraint, control, caution.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *abandoner* (to give up).



.. _application:

================================================================================
Application
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌæplɪˈkeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A formal request to an authority for something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**application**" is a **formal request for something** or the **practical use of something**.

**What it really means**: An "**application**" is a noun that refers to a formal request to an authority for something. It can also refer to the practical use of something. For example, a person can submit an **application** for a new job, or a new law can have a lot of **application** in the real world.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a formal request to an authority for something, or to the practical use of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "job **application**," "make an **application**," "the **application** of a new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to submit my **application** for the new job today."
            * "The new law has a lot of **application** in the real world, so it is very useful."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **application** of a new technology."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **application** of a new technology."
            * "The study examines how a person's **application** for a new job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **application** of a new law."
            * "The new technology has a lot of **application** in the real world."

**Synonyms**: Request, petition, form, use, utility, relevance.

**Opposite words**: Rejection, denial, irrelevance, disuse.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *applicare* (to apply).



.. _derive:

================================================================================
Derive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈraɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To obtain something from (a specified source).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**derive**" is to **obtain something from a source** or to come from a particular origin.

**What it really means**: To "**derive**" means to obtain something from a specified source. It is the act of getting something from something else. For example, a person can **derive** a lot of knowledge from a new book.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of obtaining something from a specified source.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**derive** from," "**derive** pleasure," "**derive** a conclusion."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **derive** a lot of pleasure from reading a new book."
            * "The new policy is designed to **derive** a lot of benefits from the new technology."
            * "The new law is designed to **derive** a lot of money from the new taxes."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **derive** a lot of benefits from the new technology."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **derive** a new idea from a new book can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **derive** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **derive** a lot of benefits from the new system."

**Synonyms**: Obtain, get, extract, deduce, infer.

**Opposite words**: Lose, miss, originate, create.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *derivare* (to lead or draw off from a source).



.. _achievable:

================================================================================
Achievable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈtʃiːvəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be brought about or reached successfully.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**achievable**" is to be **possible to accomplish or attain**, a goal that can be reached.

**What it really means**: "**Achievable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is able to be brought about or reached successfully. It suggests that a person or a thing can do something. For example, a new goal can be **achievable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is able to be brought about or reached successfully.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **achievable** goal," "an **achievable** target," "an **achievable** result."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My new goal is **achievable**, so I am confident that I can do it."
            * "The new policy is designed to have an **achievable** goal."
            * "The new law is designed to have an **achievable** result."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to have an **achievable** goal."
            * "The study examines how a person's **achievable** goals can affect their motivation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **achievable** results of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to have an **achievable** result."

**Synonyms**: Attainable, possible, realistic, feasible, within reach.

**Opposite words**: Unachievable, impossible, unrealistic, unattainable.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *achiever* (to come to a head, to finish).



.. _assumption:

================================================================================
Assumption
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈsʌmpʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A thing that is accepted as true or as certain to happen, without proof.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**assumption**" is a **belief or idea that is taken for granted as true**, without any evidence to support it.

**What it really means**: An "**assumption**" is a noun that refers to a thing that is accepted as true or as certain to happen, without proof. It suggests that a person is believing something without a reason. For example, a person can make an **assumption** about a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a thing that is accepted as true or as certain to happen, without proof.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make an **assumption**," "a false **assumption**," "based on an **assumption**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I made an **assumption** about the new person, and I was wrong."
            * "The new policy is based on a lot of false **assumptions**, so it will not work."
            * "The new law is based on a lot of **assumptions**, so it might not be a good one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is based on a lot of false **assumptions**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **assumptions** about a new career can affect their success."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **assumptions** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is based on a lot of **assumptions**, so it might not work."

**Synonyms**: Supposition, belief, guess, hypothesis, presumption.

**Opposite words**: Fact, certainty, proof, evidence, reality.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *assumere* (to take up).



.. _correspondence:

================================================================================
Correspondence
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌkɒrɪˈspɒndəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: Communication by exchanging letters with someone.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**correspondence**" is the **act of communicating through letters or emails**, or a **similarity or connection** between things.

**What it really means**: "**Correspondence**" is a noun that refers to communication by exchanging letters with someone. It can also refer to a similarity or a connection between two things. For example, a person can have a lot of **correspondence** with a new friend.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to communication by exchanging letters with someone, or to a similarity or a connection between two things.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "have a lot of **correspondence**," "a close **correspondence**," "a lack of **correspondence**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a lot of **correspondence** with my new friend, so we are very close."
            * "The new policy is in **correspondence** with the old one, so it will not be changed."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **correspondence** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is in **correspondence** with the old one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **correspondence** with a new friend can affect their social skills."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **correspondence** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is in **correspondence** with the old one."

**Synonyms**: Communication, letters, emails, agreement, similarity, correlation.

**Opposite words**: Disagreement, discrepancy, divergence, mismatch.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *correspondere* (to correspond).



.. _enable:

================================================================================
Enable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈneɪbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To give (someone) the authority or means to do something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**enable**" is to **make something possible** or to give someone the authority or means to do something.

**What it really means**: To "**enable**" means to give someone the authority or means to do something. It is the act of making something possible. For example, a new law can **enable** people to do a lot of things.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of giving someone the authority or means to do something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**enable** a person," "**enable** a new feature," "**enable** a new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is designed to **enable** people to do a lot of things, so it is a good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to **enable** a new feature in the new system."
            * "The new technology is designed to **enable** people to do a lot of things."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **enable** a new feature in the new system."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **enable** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **enable** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **enable** a new way of working."

**Synonyms**: Allow, permit, authorize, facilitate, empower.

**Opposite words**: Disable, prevent, hinder, prohibit, obstruct.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *en* (in) and *hable* (able).


.. _misleading:

================================================================================
Misleading
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/mɪsˈliːdɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Giving the wrong idea or impression.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**misleading**" is to **deceive or give a false impression**, guiding someone toward a wrong conclusion.

**What it really means**: "**Misleading**" is an adjective used to describe something that gives the wrong idea or impression. It suggests that a person or a thing is not telling the truth. For example, a new advertisement can be **misleading**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that gives the wrong idea or impression.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**misleading** advertisement," "**misleading** information," "**misleading** statement."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new advertisement is very **misleading**, so I am not going to buy the new product."
            * "The new policy is based on **misleading** information, so it should not be implemented."
            * "The new law is a **misleading** one, so it will not work."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is based on **misleading** information."
            * "The study examines how a person's **misleading** statement can affect their credibility."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **misleading** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is a **misleading** one, so it will not work."

**Synonyms**: Deceptive, false, erroneous, ambiguous, dishonest.

**Opposite words**: Honest, truthful, clear, accurate, straightforward.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *mis-* (wrongly) and *lædan* (to lead).



.. _miserably:

================================================================================
Miserably
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɪzərəbli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that causes great unhappiness or discomfort.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**miserably**" is to be **in a state of great unhappiness, discomfort, or inadequacy**.

**What it really means**: "**Miserably**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that causes great unhappiness or discomfort. It suggests that a person is very sad. For example, a person can feel **miserably** sad.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that causes great unhappiness or discomfort.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "fail **miserably**," "feel **miserably**," "live **miserably**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I failed the exam **miserably**, so I am very sad."
            * "He is living **miserably** because he lost his job."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who are living **miserably**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who are living **miserably**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **miserably** attitude can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **miserably** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the people who are living **miserably**."

**Synonyms**: Unhappily, wretchedly, dejectedly, sorrowfully, poorly.

**Opposite words**: Happily, joyfully, cheerfully, successfully.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *miserabilis* (pitiable, wretched).



.. _simultaneously:

================================================================================
Simultaneously
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌsɪməlˈteɪniəsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: At the same time.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**simultaneously**" is to be **happening at the exact same moment in time**.

**What it really means**: "**Simultaneously**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done at the same time. It suggests that two or more things are happening at the same time. For example, two people can talk **simultaneously**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done at the same time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "do something **simultaneously**," "happen **simultaneously**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am cooking and cleaning **simultaneously**, so I am very busy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address two problems **simultaneously**."
            * "The new law is designed to be implemented **simultaneously** with the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address two problems **simultaneously**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to do two things **simultaneously** can affect their productivity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address two problems **simultaneously**."
            * "The new technology is designed to do two things **simultaneously**."

**Synonyms**: Concurrently, at the same time, in unison, together.

**Opposite words**: Separately, sequentially, consecutively, one by one.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *simul* (at the same time).



.. _correlation:

================================================================================
Correlation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌkɒrəˈleɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A mutual relationship or connection between two or more things.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**correlation**" is a **statistical relationship or a mutual connection between two or more variables**, where a change in one is associated with a change in the other.

**What it really means**: "**Correlation**" is a noun that refers to a mutual relationship or connection between two or more things. It suggests that two things are related to each other. For example, there is a **correlation** between smoking and cancer.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a mutual relationship or connection between two or more things.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a strong **correlation**," "a direct **correlation**," "a positive **correlation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There is a strong **correlation** between smoking and cancer, so you should not smoke."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **correlation** between two problems."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **correlation** between two things."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that there is a strong **correlation** between two problems."
            * "The study examines how a person's **correlation** between two ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **correlation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to find a **correlation** between two things."

**Synonyms**: Connection, link, relationship, association, interdependence.

**Opposite words**: Disconnection, unrelatedness, independence, disparity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *correlatio* (mutual relation).



.. _admire:

================================================================================
Admire
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ədˈmaɪər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To regard with respect or warm approval.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**admire**" is to **look at someone or something with respect, pleasure, or approval**, often due to their qualities or achievements.

**What it really means**: To "**admire**" means to regard with respect or warm approval. It suggests that a person is looking at someone or something with great respect. For example, a person can **admire** a new painting.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of regarding with respect or warm approval.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**admire** a person," "**admire** a work of art," "**admire** a view."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **admire** my new friend, so I want to be like him."
            * "The new policy is designed to make the public **admire** the new government."
            * "The new law is designed to make the public **admire** the new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to make the public **admire** the new government."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **admire** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to make the public **admire** a new law."
            * "The new technology is a work of art that people can **admire**."

**Synonyms**: Respect, approve, praise, look up to, esteem.

**Opposite words**: Despise, dislike, hate, scorn, look down on.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *admirari* (to wonder at).



.. _temporarily:

================================================================================
Temporarily
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtɛmpərəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: For a limited period of time; not permanently.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**temporarily**" is to be **for a short or limited time**, not in a lasting or permanent way.

**What it really means**: "**Temporarily**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done for a limited period of time. It suggests that a person or a thing will not last forever. For example, a new store can be closed **temporarily**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done for a limited period of time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**temporarily** closed," "**temporarily** unavailable," "**temporarily** out of order."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new store is **temporarily** closed, so I can't buy a new product."
            * "The new policy is designed to be **temporarily** implemented."
            * "The new law is designed to be **temporarily** in effect."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be **temporarily** implemented."
            * "The study examines how a person's **temporarily** job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **temporarily** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **temporarily** unavailable."

**Synonyms**: Briefly, for a while, provisionally, for the time being.

**Opposite words**: Permanently, perpetually, forever, enduringly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *tempus* (time).



.. _severe:

================================================================================
Severe
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/sɪˈvɪər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of something bad or undesirable) very great; intense.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**severe**" is to be **very great, intense, or strict**, often used to describe something unpleasant or negative.

**What it really means**: "**Severe**" is an adjective used to describe something that is very great or intense. It suggests that something is very bad. For example, a person can have a **severe** headache.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is very great or intense.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **severe** headache," "a **severe** punishment," "a **severe** storm."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a **severe** headache, so I need to go to the doctor."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **severe** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is a **severe** one, so it will have a big impact."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **severe** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **severe** problem can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **severe** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **severe** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Harsh, strict, intense, serious, critical.

**Opposite words**: Mild, gentle, lenient, light, moderate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *severus* (serious, strict).



.. _especially:

================================================================================
Especially
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈspɛʃəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a great extent; more than usual.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**especially**" is to be **particularly or more than is usual**, highlighting a specific instance or quality.

**What it really means**: "**Especially**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to a great extent. It suggests that something is more important than something else. For example, a person can like a new movie, **especially** the ending.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to a great extent.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**especially** good," "**especially** important," "**especially** difficult."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I like the new movie, **especially** the ending, so it is a good one."
            * "The new policy is **especially** important, so it will have a big impact."
            * "The new law is **especially** difficult to understand."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **especially** important."
            * "The study examines how a person's **especially** good attitude can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **especially** difficult problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **especially** useful."

**Synonyms**: Particularly, notably, exceptionally, mainly, primarily.

**Opposite words**: Generally, ordinarily, commonly, normally.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *especial* (special).



.. _rapidly:

================================================================================
Rapidly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈræpɪdli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Very quickly; at a great rate.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**rapidly**" is to be **happening at a great speed or rate**, indicating a fast pace of change or movement.

**What it really means**: "**Rapidly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done very quickly. It suggests that a person or a thing is moving very fast. For example, a new company can grow **rapidly**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done very quickly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "grow **rapidly**," "change **rapidly**," "spread **rapidly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company is growing **rapidly**, so it is a very successful one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **rapidly** changing problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **rapidly** growing problems."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **rapidly** changing problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **rapidly** changing career can affect their motivation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **rapidly** growing problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is changing **rapidly**."

**Synonyms**: Quickly, swiftly, speedily, fast, promptly.

**Opposite words**: Slowly, leisurely, gradually, steadily.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *rapiditas* (swiftness).



.. _instinctively:

================================================================================
Instinctively
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈstɪŋktɪvli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Without conscious thought; by natural instinct.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**instinctively**" is to be **acting on a natural impulse or innate drive**, without deliberate thought or planning.

**What it really means**: "**Instinctively**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done without conscious thought. It suggests that a person is doing something naturally. For example, a person can **instinctively** protect their child.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without conscious thought.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "react **instinctively**," "know **instinctively**," "act **instinctively**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **instinctively** protected his child, so he is a good father."
            * "I **instinctively** knew that the new policy was not a good one."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who act **instinctively**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who act **instinctively**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **instinctively** decision can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **instinctively** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people who act **instinctively**."

**Synonyms**: Naturally, intuitively, automatically, spontaneously, without thinking.

**Opposite words**: Consciously, deliberately, intentionally, thoughtfully, rationally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *instinctus* (instigation).



.. _distortion:

================================================================================
Distortion
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstɔːrʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of distorting or the state of being distorted.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**distortion**" is the **action of twisting or changing something from its original or true shape, meaning, or state**, often in a way that makes it inaccurate.

**What it really means**: "**Distortion**" is a noun that refers to the action of distorting or the state of being distorted. It suggests that something is not in its original shape or state. For example, a new image can have a **distortion** in it.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of distorting or the state of being distorted.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **distortion** of the truth," "a sound **distortion**," "a visual **distortion**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new image has a **distortion** in it, so I can't use it."
            * "The new policy is a **distortion** of the old one, so it will not work."
            * "The new law is a **distortion** of the truth, so it will not be implemented."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **distortion** of the old one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **distortion** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **distortion** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to fix the **distortion** of a new sound."

**Synonyms**: Twist, perversion, misrepresentation, alteration, corruption.

**Opposite words**: Clarity, accuracy, fidelity, truth, precision.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *distorquere* (to twist).



.. _restrict:

================================================================================
Restrict
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈstrɪkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To put a limit on; keep under control.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**restrict**" is to **limit, confine, or keep something within certain bounds**, preventing its free movement or growth.

**What it really means**: To "**restrict**" means to put a limit on or keep something under control. It is the act of limiting something. For example, a new law can **restrict** a person's freedom.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of putting a limit on or keeping something under control.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**restrict** a person's freedom," "**restrict** access to," "**restrict** the number of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is designed to **restrict** a person's freedom, so it is a bad one."
            * "The new policy is designed to **restrict** the number of people who can enter the new building."
            * "The new law is designed to **restrict** the amount of money that a person can spend."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **restrict** the number of people who can enter the new building."
            * "The study examines how a person's **restriction** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **restrict** the new problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to **restrict** the access to new information."

**Synonyms**: Limit, confine, constrain, curb, regulate.

**Opposite words**: Allow, permit, free, open, expand.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *restringere* (to bind back).



.. _spread:

================================================================================
Spread
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/sprɛd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To open out (something) so that it covers a larger area; (Noun) The extent, width, or area of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **extend over a larger area**, causing something to be distributed widely. The core meaning of the **noun** is the **extent or range** of something.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**spread**" means to open out something so that it covers a larger area. As a **noun**, "**spread**" is the extent, width, or area of something. For example, a new disease can **spread** very fast.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of opening out something so that it covers a larger area, and the noun to refer to the extent, width, or area of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**spread** a rumor," "**spread** a disease," "**spread** a blanket."
        * **(Noun)** "a wide **spread**," "the **spread** of a disease."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new disease is **spreading** very fast, so we need to be careful."
            * "I need to **spread** the new blanket on the bed."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent the **spread** of a new disease."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to prevent the **spread** of a new disease."
            * "The study examines how a person's **spread** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **spread** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent the **spread** of a new problem."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Disperse, scatter, expand, propagate; (Noun) Extension, range, diffusion, breadth.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Contract, shrink, gather, contain; (Noun) Concentration, containment, reduction.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *sprædan* (to spread).



.. _durability:

================================================================================
Durability
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdjʊərəˈbɪləti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The ability to withstand wear, pressure, or damage.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**durability**" is the **quality of being able to last a long time** or withstand wear and tear.

**What it really means**: "**Durability**" is a noun that refers to the ability to withstand wear, pressure, or damage. It suggests that a new product can last for a long time. For example, a new car can have great **durability**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the ability to withstand wear, pressure, or damage.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "great **durability**," "a lack of **durability**," "the **durability** of a product."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new car has great **durability**, so it will last for a long time."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **durability** of a new system."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **durability** of a new product."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **durability** of a new system."
            * "The study examines how a person's **durability** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **durability** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to have great **durability**."

**Synonyms**: Strength, resilience, robustness, longevity, permanence.

**Opposite words**: Fragility, weakness, impermanence, vulnerability.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *durabilis* (lasting).



.. _eligible:

================================================================================
Eligible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɛlɪdʒəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Having the right to do or obtain something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**eligible**" is to **meet the necessary conditions or requirements** to be able to do or receive something.

**What it really means**: "**Eligible**" is an adjective used to describe someone who has the right to do or obtain something. It suggests that a person can do something. For example, a person can be **eligible** for a new job.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who has the right to do or obtain something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**eligible** for," "**eligible** to," "legally **eligible**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am **eligible** for the new job, so I am going to apply."
            * "The new policy is designed to make more people **eligible** for a new service."
            * "The new law is designed to make more people **eligible** for a new right."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to make more people **eligible** for a new service."
            * "The study examines how a person's **eligibleity** for a new career can affect their motivation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **eligibleity** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to make more people **eligible** for a new product."

**Synonyms**: Qualified, entitled, a candidate for, suitable, permissible.

**Opposite words**: Ineligible, disqualified, unsuitable, unfit.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *eligere* (to choose).



.. _devastating:

================================================================================
Devastating
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɛvəsteɪtɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Highly destructive or damaging.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**devastating**" is to be **causing a great deal of damage, destruction, or emotional distress**.

**What it really means**: "**Devastating**" is an adjective used to describe something that is highly destructive or damaging. It suggests that something is very bad. For example, a new storm can be **devastating**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is highly destructive or damaging.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **devastating** storm," "a **devastating** loss," "a **devastating** impact."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new storm was **devastating**, and it destroyed a lot of things."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **devastating** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is a **devastating** one, so it will have a big impact."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **devastating** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **devastating** loss can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **devastating** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is a **devastating** one, so it will not be implemented."

**Synonyms**: Destructive, ruinous, damaging, catastrophic, disastrous.

**Opposite words**: Constructive, beneficial, helpful, positive, harmless.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *devastare* (to lay waste).



.. _capacity:

================================================================================
Capacity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˈpæsəti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The maximum amount that something can contain.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**capacity**" is the **maximum amount or volume that something can hold** or the ability to do something.

**What it really means**: "**Capacity**" is a noun that refers to the maximum amount that something can contain. It suggests that a new place can hold a lot of people. For example, a new building can have a large **capacity**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the maximum amount that something can contain.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "maximum **capacity**," "storage **capacity**," "the **capacity** to do something."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new building has a maximum **capacity** of 100 people, so we can't let more people in."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **capacity** of a new system."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **capacity** of a new place."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **capacity** of a new system."
            * "The study examines how a person's **capacity** to do a new job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **capacity** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to increase the **capacity** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Volume, size, space, ability, potential, power.

**Opposite words**: Limitation, inability, incapacity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *capax* (able to hold much).



.. _supply:

================================================================================
Supply
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈplaɪ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A stock of a resource from which a person or place can be provided with the necessary amount of that resource; (Verb) To make (something) available to someone.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **stock or quantity of a resource** that is available. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **provide or make something available** to someone.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**supply**" is a stock of a resource from which a person or place can be provided with the necessary amount of that resource. As a **verb**, to "**supply**" means to make something available to someone. For example, a new company can **supply** a new product.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a stock of a resource, and the verb to refer to the act of making something available to someone.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a limited **supply**," "a **supply** chain," "the **supply** of goods."
        * **(Verb)** "**supply** a product," "**supply** a service," "**supply** a person."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company will **supply** a new product to the market."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **supply** of a new resource."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **supply** of a new product."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **supply** of a new resource."
            * "The study examines how a person's **supply** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **supply** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **supply** a new service."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Stock, provision, reserve, source; (Verb) Provide, furnish, deliver, equip.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Demand, lack, shortage, scarcity; (Verb) Withhold, deny, remove.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *supplere* (to fill up).



.. _deliberate:

================================================================================
Deliberate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈlɪbərət/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Done consciously and intentionally.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**deliberate**" is to be **done on purpose and with careful consideration**, not by chance or accident.

**What it really means**: "**Deliberate**" is an adjective used to describe something that is done consciously and intentionally. It suggests that a person is doing something on purpose. For example, a new mistake can be a **deliberate** one.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done consciously and intentionally.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **deliberate** mistake," "a **deliberate** act," "a **deliberate** choice."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new mistake was a **deliberate** one, so I am very angry."
            * "The new policy is a **deliberate** one, so it will have a big impact."
            * "The new law is a **deliberate** one, so it will have a big impact."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **deliberate** one, and it will have a lot of positive and negative effects."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deliberate** choice can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **deliberate** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is a **deliberate** one, so it will be widely used."

**Synonyms**: Intentional, planned, conscious, purposeful, calculated.

**Opposite words**: Accidental, unintentional, unplanned, spontaneous.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deliberare* (to weigh in the mind).



.. _conflict:

================================================================================
Conflict
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɒnflɪkt/` (noun), :code:`/kənˈflɪkt/` (verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A serious disagreement or argument; (Verb) To be incompatible or at variance.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **serious disagreement, struggle, or clash** between opposing ideas, people, or forces. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **be incompatible or at odds with something**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**conflict**" is a serious disagreement or argument. As a **verb**, to "**conflict**" means to be incompatible or at variance. For example, a new policy can cause a lot of **conflict**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a serious disagreement or argument, and the verb to refer to the act of being incompatible or at variance.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a serious **conflict**," "a **conflict** of interest," "a family **conflict**."
        * **(Verb)** "**conflict** with," "ideas **conflict**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy caused a lot of **conflict**, so it was not implemented."
            * "My new idea is in **conflict** with the old one, so I need to change it."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **conflict** in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy caused a lot of **conflict**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **conflict** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **conflict** in the country."
            * "The new technology is in **conflict** with the old one."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Dispute, disagreement, clash, battle, opposition; (Verb) Clash, disagree, collide, differ.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Agreement, harmony, peace, accord; (Verb) Agree, harmonize, align.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *conflictus* (a striking together).



.. _undeniable:

================================================================================
Undeniable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌʌndɪˈnaɪəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Plainly true; incapable of being denied.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**undeniable**" is to be **impossible to dispute or question**, a fact that is plainly and certainly true.

**What it really means**: "**Undeniable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is plainly true. It suggests that a new fact cannot be denied. For example, a new fact can be **undeniable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is plainly true.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**undeniable** fact," "**undeniable** evidence," "**undeniable** truth."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new fact is an **undeniable** one, so you have to believe it."
            * "The new policy is based on **undeniable** evidence, so it will be implemented."
            * "The new law is based on **undeniable** truth."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is based on **undeniable** evidence."
            * "The study examines how a person's **undeniable** talent can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **undeniable** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is an **undeniable** success."

**Synonyms**: Incontrovertible, indisputable, irrefutable, unquestionable, certain.

**Opposite words**: Deniable, questionable, debatable, dubious, uncertain.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *denier* (to deny).



.. _recklessly:

================================================================================
Recklessly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrɛkləsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Without thinking or caring about the consequences of an action.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**recklessly**" is to be **acting in a way that is careless or without concern for potential danger or consequences**.

**What it really means**: "**Recklessly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done without thinking or caring about the consequences of an action. It suggests that a person is doing something very carelessly. For example, a person can drive **recklessly**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without thinking or caring about the consequences of an action.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "drive **recklessly**," "act **recklessly**," "spend **recklessly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was driving **recklessly**, so he got into a car accident."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who act **recklessly**."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who spend **recklessly**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who act **recklessly**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **recklessly** decision can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **recklessly** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from acting **recklessly**."

**Synonyms**: Carelessly, heedlessly, rashly, irresponsibly, without caution.

**Opposite words**: Cautiously, carefully, prudently, responsibly, thoughtfully.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *reccan* (to care for).



.. _treat:

================================================================================
Treat
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/triːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To behave towards or deal with in a certain way; (Noun) An event or item that is out of the ordinary and gives great pleasure.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **behave toward someone or deal with something in a specific way**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **special pleasure** or indulgence.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**treat**" means to behave towards or deal with something in a certain way. As a **noun**, a "**treat**" is an event or item that is out of the ordinary and gives great pleasure. For example, a person can **treat** a new problem, or a person can get a new **treat**.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of behaving towards or dealing with something in a certain way, and the noun to refer to a special pleasure.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**treat** a person," "**treat** a disease," "**treat** a problem."
        * **(Noun)** "a special **treat**," "a little **treat**," "it's my **treat**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **treat** my new friend with respect, so we are very close."
            * "The new policy is designed to **treat** a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to **treat** a new disease."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **treat** a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **treat** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **treat** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **treat** a new disease."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Handle, manage, deal with, behave towards; (Noun) Pleasure, delight, gift, luxury.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Neglect, ignore, mistreat, harm; (Noun) Misery, hardship, chore.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *traitier* (to handle, to deal with).



.. _conventionally:

================================================================================
Conventionally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈvɛnʃənəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is based on or in accordance with what is generally done or believed.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**conventionally**" is to be **in a way that is traditional, customary, or widely accepted** by society.

**What it really means**: "**Conventionally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is based on what is generally done or believed. It suggests that a person is doing something in a normal way. For example, a person can dress **conventionally**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is based on what is generally done or believed.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "dressed **conventionally**," "think **conventionally**," "behave **conventionally**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am dressed **conventionally** today because I am going to a meeting."
            * "He thinks **conventionally**, so he is not a very creative person."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who behave **conventionally**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who behave **conventionally**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **conventionally** attitude can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **conventionally** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to be used **conventionally**."

**Synonyms**: Traditionally, customarily, ordinarily, normally, regularly.

**Opposite words**: Unconventionally, unusually, uniquely, originally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *conventio* (agreement, assembly).



.. _validate:

================================================================================
Validate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvælɪdeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To check or prove the validity or accuracy of (something).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**validate**" is to **confirm, prove, or check the accuracy or legitimacy of something**. It can also mean to make someone feel that their feelings are justified.

**What it really means**: To "**validate**" means to check or prove the validity or accuracy of something. It is the act of confirming that something is true. For example, a new study can **validate** a new theory.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of checking or proving the validity or accuracy of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**validate** a theory," "**validate** a claim," "**validate** an argument."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new study is designed to **validate** the new theory, so it is a very important one."
            * "The new policy is designed to **validate** the new problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to **validate** the new ideas."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **validate** the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **validate** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **validate** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **validate** a new theory."

**Synonyms**: Confirm, prove, verify, substantiate, authenticate.

**Opposite words**: Invalidate, disprove, discredit, refute.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *validus* (strong, powerful).



.. _appreciate:

================================================================================
Appreciate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈpriːʃieɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To recognize the full worth of.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**appreciate**" is to **recognize the value or significance of something** or to be grateful for it.

**What it really means**: To "**appreciate**" means to recognize the full worth of something. It is the act of being grateful for something. For example, a person can **appreciate** a new gift.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of recognizing the full worth of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**appreciate** a gift," "**appreciate** a person," "**appreciate** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **appreciate** the new gift, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to make people **appreciate** the new government."
            * "The new law is designed to make people **appreciate** the new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to make people **appreciate** the new government."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **appreciate** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to make people **appreciate** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to make people **appreciate** the new system."

**Synonyms**: Value, cherish, be grateful for, be thankful for, recognize.

**Opposite words**: Disregard, undervalue, scorn, neglect, be ungrateful for.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *appretiare* (to value, to appraise).



.. _ancient:

================================================================================
Ancient
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈeɪnʃənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Belonging to the very distant past and no longer in existence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**ancient**" is to be **from a very long time ago**, relating to a historical period that is no longer current.

**What it really means**: "**Ancient**" is an adjective used to describe something that belongs to the very distant past. It suggests that a new thing is very old. For example, a new book can have **ancient** stories.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that belongs to the very distant past.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**ancient** history," "**ancient** civilization," "**ancient** stories."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I like to read about **ancient** history, so I am very interested in it."
            * "The new policy is based on **ancient** ideas, so it is not a good one."
            * "The new law is based on **ancient** laws."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is based on **ancient** ideas."
            * "The study examines how a person's **ancient** knowledge can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **ancient** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is a **ancient** one, so it will not work."

**Synonyms**: Old, historical, archaic, bygone, long ago.

**Opposite words**: Modern, new, recent, current, contemporary.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *ante* (before).



.. _slightly:

================================================================================
Slightly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈslaɪtli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a small degree; a little.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**slightly**" is to be **to a small extent or degree**, indicating a minor difference or change.

**What it really means**: "**Slightly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to a small degree. It suggests that a person is doing something a little bit. For example, a new project can be **slightly** different from the old one.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to a small degree.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**slightly** different," "**slightly** taller," "**slightly** better."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new project is **slightly** different from the old one, so I need to change it."
            * "He is **slightly** taller than me, so he is a good basketball player."
            * "The new law is **slightly** better than the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **slightly** better than the old one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **slightly** different idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **slightly** different problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **slightly** better than the old one."

**Synonyms**: A little, somewhat, a bit, marginally, minimally.

**Opposite words**: Greatly, considerably, immensely, significantly, very.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *sliht* (smooth).



.. _decline:

================================================================================
Decline
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈklaɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To become smaller, fewer, or less; (Noun) A gradual and continuous loss of strength, numbers, or value.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **decrease in quantity, quality, or strength** or to refuse an offer. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **gradual decrease or a downward trend**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**decline**" means to become smaller, fewer, or less. As a **noun**, a "**decline**" is a gradual and continuous loss of strength, numbers, or value. For example, a new company can **decline** in value.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of becoming smaller, fewer, or less, and the noun to refer to a gradual and continuous loss of strength, numbers, or value.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**decline** in value," "**decline** a request," "**decline** an invitation."
        * **(Noun)** "a rapid **decline**," "a slow **decline**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company's value is **declineing**, so I need to sell my shares."
            * "I had to **decline** the new invitation because I was too busy."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **decline** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **decline** of a new country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **decline** in health can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **decline** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is in **decline**."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Decrease, diminish, reduce, refuse, reject; (Noun) Decrease, reduction, downturn, deterioration.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Increase, grow, accept; (Noun) Increase, growth, rise, improvement.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *declinare* (to bend down).



.. _offend:

================================================================================
Offend
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈfɛnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To cause to feel upset, annoyed, or resentful.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**offend**" is to **cause someone to feel upset, annoyed, or insulted**, often by a remark or action that is disrespectful.

**What it really means**: To "**offend**" means to cause to feel upset, annoyed, or resentful. It is the act of saying or doing something that makes someone unhappy. For example, a person can **offend** someone with a new joke.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of causing to feel upset, annoyed, or resentful.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**offend** a person," "**offend** a group," "**offend** a country."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **offended** me with his new joke, so I don't want to talk to him anymore."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **offend** others."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **offend** the new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **offend** others."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **offend** others can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **offend** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from **offending** others."

**Synonyms**: Insult, upset, annoy, displease, anger.

**Opposite words**: Please, delight, soothe, compliment, appease.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *offendere* (to strike against).



.. _susceptible:

================================================================================
Susceptible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈsɛptəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**susceptible**" is to be **easily influenced, affected, or harmed by something**, making one vulnerable.

**What it really means**: "**Susceptible**" is an adjective used to describe someone who is likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing. It suggests that a person can be easily affected by something. For example, a person can be **susceptible** to a new disease.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**susceptible** to," "**susceptible** to a disease," "**susceptible** to a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am **susceptible** to the new disease, so I need to be careful."
            * "He is **susceptible** to a new idea, so he is a very creative person."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who are **susceptible** to a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who are **susceptible** to a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **susceptibleity** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **susceptibleity** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the people who are **susceptible** to a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Vulnerable, prone, exposed, open, liable.

**Opposite words**: Immune, resistant, invulnerable, unaffected, protected.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *suscipere* (to take up).



.. _hostile:

================================================================================
Hostile
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɒstaɪl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Unfriendly; antagonistic.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**hostile**" is to be **unfriendly, aggressive, or opposed to something**, creating an environment of antagonism.

**What it really means**: "**Hostile**" is an adjective used to describe someone who is unfriendly or antagonistic. It suggests that a person is not a friend. For example, a new person can be **hostile**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is unfriendly or antagonistic.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **hostile** environment," "a **hostile** person," "a **hostile** attitude."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a **hostile** attitude, so I don't want to talk to him anymore."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who have a **hostile** attitude."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **hostile** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who have a **hostile** attitude."
            * "The study examines how a person's **hostile** attitude can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **hostile** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent a **hostile** environment."

**Synonyms**: Unfriendly, antagonistic, aggressive, confrontational, belligerent.

**Opposite words**: Friendly, amicable, welcoming, peaceful, cooperative.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *hostilis* (of an enemy).



.. _healthy:

================================================================================
Healthy
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɛlθi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a good physical or mental condition.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**healthy**" is to be **in a state of good physical, mental, or social well-being**, free from illness or disease.

**What it really means**: "**Healthy**" is an adjective used to describe someone who is in a good physical or mental condition. It suggests that a person is not sick. For example, a person can be **healthy**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is in a good physical or mental condition.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **healthy** person," "a **healthy** lifestyle," "a **healthy** diet."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am a **healthy** person, so I can do a lot of things."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **healthy** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **healthy** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **healthy** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **healthy** lifestyle can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **healthy** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people live a **healthy** life."

**Synonyms**: Well, fit, sound, vigorous, wholesome.

**Opposite words**: Unhealthy, sick, ill, unwell, weak.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *hæl* (health).


.. _misleading:

================================================================================
Misleading
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/mɪsˈliːdɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Giving the wrong idea or impression.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**misleading**" is to **deceive or give a false impression**, guiding someone toward a wrong conclusion.

**What it really means**: "**Misleading**" is an adjective used to describe something that gives the wrong idea or impression. It suggests that a person or a thing is not telling the truth. For example, a new advertisement can be **misleading**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that gives the wrong idea or impression.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**misleading** advertisement," "**misleading** information," "**misleading** statement."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new advertisement is very **misleading**, so I am not going to buy the new product."
            * "The new policy is based on **misleading** information, so it should not be implemented."
            * "The new law is a **misleading** one, so it will not work."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is based on **misleading** information."
            * "The study examines how a person's **misleading** statement can affect their credibility."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **misleading** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is a **misleading** one, so it will not work."

**Synonyms**: Deceptive, false, erroneous, ambiguous, dishonest.

**Opposite words**: Honest, truthful, clear, accurate, straightforward.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *mis-* (wrongly) and *lædan* (to lead).



.. _miserably:

================================================================================
Miserably
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmɪzərəbli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that causes great unhappiness or discomfort.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**miserably**" is to be **in a state of great unhappiness, discomfort, or inadequacy**.

**What it really means**: "**Miserably**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that causes great unhappiness or discomfort. It suggests that a person is very sad. For example, a person can feel **miserably** sad.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that causes great unhappiness or discomfort.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "fail **miserably**," "feel **miserably**," "live **miserably**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I failed the exam **miserably**, so I am very sad."
            * "He is living **miserably** because he lost his job."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who are living **miserably**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who are living **miserably**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **miserably** attitude can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **miserably** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the people who are living **miserably**."

**Synonyms**: Unhappily, wretchedly, dejectedly, sorrowfully, poorly.

**Opposite words**: Happily, joyfully, cheerfully, successfully.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *miserabilis* (pitiable, wretched).



.. _simultaneously:

================================================================================
Simultaneously
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌsɪməlˈteɪniəsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: At the same time.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**simultaneously**" is to be **happening at the exact same moment in time**.

**What it really means**: "**Simultaneously**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done at the same time. It suggests that two or more things are happening at the same time. For example, two people can talk **simultaneously**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done at the same time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "do something **simultaneously**," "happen **simultaneously**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am cooking and cleaning **simultaneously**, so I am very busy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address two problems **simultaneously**."
            * "The new law is designed to be implemented **simultaneously** with the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address two problems **simultaneously**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to do two things **simultaneously** can affect their productivity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address two problems **simultaneously**."
            * "The new technology is designed to do two things **simultaneously**."

**Synonyms**: Concurrently, at the same time, in unison, together.

**Opposite words**: Separately, sequentially, consecutively, one by one.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *simul* (at the same time).



.. _correlation:

================================================================================
Correlation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌkɒrəˈleɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A mutual relationship or connection between two or more things.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**correlation**" is a **statistical relationship or a mutual connection between two or more variables**, where a change in one is associated with a change in the other.

**What it really means**: "**Correlation**" is a noun that refers to a mutual relationship or connection between two or more things. It suggests that two things are related to each other. For example, there is a **correlation** between smoking and cancer.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a mutual relationship or connection between two or more things.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a strong **correlation**," "a direct **correlation**," "a positive **correlation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There is a strong **correlation** between smoking and cancer, so you should not smoke."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **correlation** between two problems."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **correlation** between two things."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that there is a strong **correlation** between two problems."
            * "The study examines how a person's **correlation** between two ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **correlation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to find a **correlation** between two things."

**Synonyms**: Connection, link, relationship, association, interdependence.

**Opposite words**: Disconnection, unrelatedness, independence, disparity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *correlatio* (mutual relation).



.. _admire:

================================================================================
Admire
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ədˈmaɪər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To regard with respect or warm approval.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**admire**" is to **look at someone or something with respect, pleasure, or approval**, often due to their qualities or achievements.

**What it really means**: To "**admire**" means to regard with respect or warm approval. It suggests that a person is looking at someone or something with great respect. For example, a person can **admire** a new painting.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of regarding with respect or warm approval.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**admire** a person," "**admire** a work of art," "**admire** a view."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **admire** my new friend, so I want to be like him."
            * "The new policy is designed to make the public **admire** the new government."
            * "The new law is designed to make the public **admire** the new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to make the public **admire** the new government."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **admire** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to make the public **admire** a new law."
            * "The new technology is a work of art that people can **admire**."

**Synonyms**: Respect, approve, praise, look up to, esteem.

**Opposite words**: Despise, dislike, hate, scorn, look down on.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *admirari* (to wonder at).



.. _temporarily:

================================================================================
Temporarily
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtɛmpərəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: For a limited period of time; not permanently.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**temporarily**" is to be **for a short or limited time**, not in a lasting or permanent way.

**What it really means**: "**Temporarily**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done for a limited period of time. It suggests that a person or a thing will not last forever. For example, a new store can be closed **temporarily**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done for a limited period of time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**temporarily** closed," "**temporarily** unavailable," "**temporarily** out of order."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new store is **temporarily** closed, so I can't buy a new product."
            * "The new policy is designed to be **temporarily** implemented."
            * "The new law is designed to be **temporarily** in effect."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be **temporarily** implemented."
            * "The study examines how a person's **temporarily** job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **temporarily** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **temporarily** unavailable."

**Synonyms**: Briefly, for a while, provisionally, for the time being.

**Opposite words**: Permanently, perpetually, forever, enduringly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *tempus* (time).



.. _severe:

================================================================================
Severe
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/sɪˈvɪər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of something bad or undesirable) very great; intense.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**severe**" is to be **very great, intense, or strict**, often used to describe something unpleasant or negative.

**What it really means**: "**Severe**" is an adjective used to describe something that is very great or intense. It suggests that something is very bad. For example, a person can have a **severe** headache.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is very great or intense.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **severe** headache," "a **severe** punishment," "a **severe** storm."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a **severe** headache, so I need to go to the doctor."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **severe** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is a **severe** one, so it will have a big impact."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **severe** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **severe** problem can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **severe** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **severe** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Harsh, strict, intense, serious, critical.

**Opposite words**: Mild, gentle, lenient, light, moderate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *severus* (serious, strict).



.. _especially:

================================================================================
Especially
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈspɛʃəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a great extent; more than usual.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**especially**" is to be **particularly or more than is usual**, highlighting a specific instance or quality.

**What it really means**: "**Especially**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to a great extent. It suggests that something is more important than something else. For example, a person can like a new movie, **especially** the ending.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to a great extent.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**especially** good," "**especially** important," "**especially** difficult."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I like the new movie, **especially** the ending, so it is a good one."
            * "The new policy is **especially** important, so it will have a big impact."
            * "The new law is **especially** difficult to understand."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **especially** important."
            * "The study examines how a person's **especially** good attitude can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **especially** difficult problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **especially** useful."

**Synonyms**: Particularly, notably, exceptionally, mainly, primarily.

**Opposite words**: Generally, ordinarily, commonly, normally.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *especial* (special).



.. _rapidly:

================================================================================
Rapidly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈræpɪdli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Very quickly; at a great rate.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**rapidly**" is to be **happening at a great speed or rate**, indicating a fast pace of change or movement.

**What it really means**: "**Rapidly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done very quickly. It suggests that a person or a thing is moving very fast. For example, a new company can grow **rapidly**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done very quickly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "grow **rapidly**," "change **rapidly**," "spread **rapidly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company is growing **rapidly**, so it is a very successful one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **rapidly** changing problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **rapidly** growing problems."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **rapidly** changing problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **rapidly** changing career can affect their motivation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **rapidly** growing problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is changing **rapidly**."

**Synonyms**: Quickly, swiftly, speedily, fast, promptly.

**Opposite words**: Slowly, leisurely, gradually, steadily.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *rapiditas* (swiftness).



.. _instinctively:

================================================================================
Instinctively
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈstɪŋktɪvli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Without conscious thought; by natural instinct.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**instinctively**" is to be **acting on a natural impulse or innate drive**, without deliberate thought or planning.

**What it really means**: "**Instinctively**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done without conscious thought. It suggests that a person is doing something naturally. For example, a person can **instinctively** protect their child.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without conscious thought.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "react **instinctively**," "know **instinctively**," "act **instinctively**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **instinctively** protected his child, so he is a good father."
            * "I **instinctively** knew that the new policy was not a good one."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who act **instinctively**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who act **instinctively**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **instinctively** decision can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **instinctively** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people who act **instinctively**."

**Synonyms**: Naturally, intuitively, automatically, spontaneously, without thinking.

**Opposite words**: Consciously, deliberately, intentionally, thoughtfully, rationally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *instinctus* (instigation).



.. _distortion:

================================================================================
Distortion
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstɔːrʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of distorting or the state of being distorted.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**distortion**" is the **action of twisting or changing something from its original or true shape, meaning, or state**, often in a way that makes it inaccurate.

**What it really means**: "**Distortion**" is a noun that refers to the action of distorting or the state of being distorted. It suggests that something is not in its original shape or state. For example, a new image can have a **distortion** in it.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of distorting or the state of being distorted.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a **distortion** of the truth," "a sound **distortion**," "a visual **distortion**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new image has a **distortion** in it, so I can't use it."
            * "The new policy is a **distortion** of the old one, so it will not work."
            * "The new law is a **distortion** of the truth, so it will not be implemented."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **distortion** of the old one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **distortion** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **distortion** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to fix the **distortion** of a new sound."

**Synonyms**: Twist, perversion, misrepresentation, alteration, corruption.

**Opposite words**: Clarity, accuracy, fidelity, truth, precision.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *distorquere* (to twist).



.. _restrict:

================================================================================
Restrict
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈstrɪkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To put a limit on; keep under control.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**restrict**" is to **limit, confine, or keep something within certain bounds**, preventing its free movement or growth.

**What it really means**: To "**restrict**" means to put a limit on or keep something under control. It is the act of limiting something. For example, a new law can **restrict** a person's freedom.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of putting a limit on or keeping something under control.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**restrict** a person's freedom," "**restrict** access to," "**restrict** the number of."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is designed to **restrict** a person's freedom, so it is a bad one."
            * "The new policy is designed to **restrict** the number of people who can enter the new building."
            * "The new law is designed to **restrict** the amount of money that a person can spend."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **restrict** the number of people who can enter the new building."
            * "The study examines how a person's **restriction** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **restrict** the new problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to **restrict** the access to new information."

**Synonyms**: Limit, confine, constrain, curb, regulate.

**Opposite words**: Allow, permit, free, open, expand.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *restringere* (to bind back).



.. _spread:

================================================================================
Spread
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/sprɛd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To open out (something) so that it covers a larger area; (Noun) The extent, width, or area of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **extend over a larger area**, causing something to be distributed widely. The core meaning of the **noun** is the **extent or range** of something.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**spread**" means to open out something so that it covers a larger area. As a **noun**, "**spread**" is the extent, width, or area of something. For example, a new disease can **spread** very fast.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of opening out something so that it covers a larger area, and the noun to refer to the extent, width, or area of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**spread** a rumor," "**spread** a disease," "**spread** a blanket."
        * **(Noun)** "a wide **spread**," "the **spread** of a disease."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new disease is **spreading** very fast, so we need to be careful."
            * "I need to **spread** the new blanket on the bed."
            * "The new law is designed to prevent the **spread** of a new disease."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to prevent the **spread** of a new disease."
            * "The study examines how a person's **spread** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **spread** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent the **spread** of a new problem."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Disperse, scatter, expand, propagate; (Noun) Extension, range, diffusion, breadth.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Contract, shrink, gather, contain; (Noun) Concentration, containment, reduction.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *sprædan* (to spread).



.. _durability:

================================================================================
Durability
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdjʊərəˈbɪləti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The ability to withstand wear, pressure, or damage.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**durability**" is the **quality of being able to last a long time** or withstand wear and tear.

**What it really means**: "**Durability**" is a noun that refers to the ability to withstand wear, pressure, or damage. It suggests that a new product can last for a long time. For example, a new car can have great **durability**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the ability to withstand wear, pressure, or damage.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "great **durability**," "a lack of **durability**," "the **durability** of a product."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new car has great **durability**, so it will last for a long time."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **durability** of a new system."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **durability** of a new product."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **durability** of a new system."
            * "The study examines how a person's **durability** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **durability** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to have great **durability**."

**Synonyms**: Strength, resilience, robustness, longevity, permanence.

**Opposite words**: Fragility, weakness, impermanence, vulnerability.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *durabilis* (lasting).



.. _eligible:

================================================================================
Eligible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɛlɪdʒəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Having the right to do or obtain something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**eligible**" is to **meet the necessary conditions or requirements** to be able to do or receive something.

**What it really means**: "**Eligible**" is an adjective used to describe someone who has the right to do or obtain something. It suggests that a person can do something. For example, a person can be **eligible** for a new job.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who has the right to do or obtain something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**eligible** for," "**eligible** to," "legally **eligible**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am **eligible** for the new job, so I am going to apply."
            * "The new policy is designed to make more people **eligible** for a new service."
            * "The new law is designed to make more people **eligible** for a new right."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to make more people **eligible** for a new service."
            * "The study examines how a person's **eligibleity** for a new career can affect their motivation."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **eligibleity** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to make more people **eligible** for a new product."

**Synonyms**: Qualified, entitled, a candidate for, suitable, permissible.

**Opposite words**: Ineligible, disqualified, unsuitable, unfit.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *eligere* (to choose).



.. _devastating:

================================================================================
Devastating
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɛvəsteɪtɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Highly destructive or damaging.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**devastating**" is to be **causing a great deal of damage, destruction, or emotional distress**.

**What it really means**: "**Devastating**" is an adjective used to describe something that is highly destructive or damaging. It suggests that something is very bad. For example, a new storm can be **devastating**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is highly destructive or damaging.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **devastating** storm," "a **devastating** loss," "a **devastating** impact."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new storm was **devastating**, and it destroyed a lot of things."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **devastating** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is a **devastating** one, so it will have a big impact."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **devastating** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **devastating** loss can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **devastating** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is a **devastating** one, so it will not be implemented."

**Synonyms**: Destructive, ruinous, damaging, catastrophic, disastrous.

**Opposite words**: Constructive, beneficial, helpful, positive, harmless.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *devastare* (to lay waste).



.. _capacity:

================================================================================
Capacity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˈpæsəti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The maximum amount that something can contain.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**capacity**" is the **maximum amount or volume that something can hold** or the ability to do something.

**What it really means**: "**Capacity**" is a noun that refers to the maximum amount that something can contain. It suggests that a new place can hold a lot of people. For example, a new building can have a large **capacity**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the maximum amount that something can contain.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "maximum **capacity**," "storage **capacity**," "the **capacity** to do something."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new building has a maximum **capacity** of 100 people, so we can't let more people in."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **capacity** of a new system."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **capacity** of a new place."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **capacity** of a new system."
            * "The study examines how a person's **capacity** to do a new job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **capacity** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to increase the **capacity** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Volume, size, space, ability, potential, power.

**Opposite words**: Limitation, inability, incapacity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *capax* (able to hold much).



.. _supply:

================================================================================
Supply
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈplaɪ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A stock of a resource from which a person or place can be provided with the necessary amount of that resource; (Verb) To make (something) available to someone.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **stock or quantity of a resource** that is available. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **provide or make something available** to someone.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**supply**" is a stock of a resource from which a person or place can be provided with the necessary amount of that resource. As a **verb**, to "**supply**" means to make something available to someone. For example, a new company can **supply** a new product.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a stock of a resource, and the verb to refer to the act of making something available to someone.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a limited **supply**," "a **supply** chain," "the **supply** of goods."
        * **(Verb)** "**supply** a product," "**supply** a service," "**supply** a person."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company will **supply** a new product to the market."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **supply** of a new resource."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **supply** of a new product."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **supply** of a new resource."
            * "The study examines how a person's **supply** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **supply** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **supply** a new service."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Stock, provision, reserve, source; (Verb) Provide, furnish, deliver, equip.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Demand, lack, shortage, scarcity; (Verb) Withhold, deny, remove.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *supplere* (to fill up).



.. _deliberate:

================================================================================
Deliberate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈlɪbərət/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Done consciously and intentionally.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**deliberate**" is to be **done on purpose and with careful consideration**, not by chance or accident.

**What it really means**: "**Deliberate**" is an adjective used to describe something that is done consciously and intentionally. It suggests that a person is doing something on purpose. For example, a new mistake can be a **deliberate** one.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done consciously and intentionally.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **deliberate** mistake," "a **deliberate** act," "a **deliberate** choice."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new mistake was a **deliberate** one, so I am very angry."
            * "The new policy is a **deliberate** one, so it will have a big impact."
            * "The new law is a **deliberate** one, so it will have a big impact."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is a **deliberate** one, and it will have a lot of positive and negative effects."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deliberate** choice can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **deliberate** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is a **deliberate** one, so it will be widely used."

**Synonyms**: Intentional, planned, conscious, purposeful, calculated.

**Opposite words**: Accidental, unintentional, unplanned, spontaneous.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deliberare* (to weigh in the mind).



.. _conflict:

================================================================================
Conflict
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɒnflɪkt/` (noun), :code:`/kənˈflɪkt/` (verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A serious disagreement or argument; (Verb) To be incompatible or at variance.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **serious disagreement, struggle, or clash** between opposing ideas, people, or forces. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **be incompatible or at odds with something**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, a "**conflict**" is a serious disagreement or argument. As a **verb**, to "**conflict**" means to be incompatible or at variance. For example, a new policy can cause a lot of **conflict**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a serious disagreement or argument, and the verb to refer to the act of being incompatible or at variance.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a serious **conflict**," "a **conflict** of interest," "a family **conflict**."
        * **(Verb)** "**conflict** with," "ideas **conflict**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy caused a lot of **conflict**, so it was not implemented."
            * "My new idea is in **conflict** with the old one, so I need to change it."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **conflict** in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy caused a lot of **conflict**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **conflict** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **conflict** in the country."
            * "The new technology is in **conflict** with the old one."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Dispute, disagreement, clash, battle, opposition; (Verb) Clash, disagree, collide, differ.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Agreement, harmony, peace, accord; (Verb) Agree, harmonize, align.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *conflictus* (a striking together).



.. _undeniable:

================================================================================
Undeniable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌʌndɪˈnaɪəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Plainly true; incapable of being denied.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**undeniable**" is to be **impossible to dispute or question**, a fact that is plainly and certainly true.

**What it really means**: "**Undeniable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is plainly true. It suggests that a new fact cannot be denied. For example, a new fact can be **undeniable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is plainly true.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**undeniable** fact," "**undeniable** evidence," "**undeniable** truth."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new fact is an **undeniable** one, so you have to believe it."
            * "The new policy is based on **undeniable** evidence, so it will be implemented."
            * "The new law is based on **undeniable** truth."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is based on **undeniable** evidence."
            * "The study examines how a person's **undeniable** talent can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **undeniable** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is an **undeniable** success."

**Synonyms**: Incontrovertible, indisputable, irrefutable, unquestionable, certain.

**Opposite words**: Deniable, questionable, debatable, dubious, uncertain.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *denier* (to deny).



.. _recklessly:

================================================================================
Recklessly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈrɛkləsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Without thinking or caring about the consequences of an action.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**recklessly**" is to be **acting in a way that is careless or without concern for potential danger or consequences**.

**What it really means**: "**Recklessly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done without thinking or caring about the consequences of an action. It suggests that a person is doing something very carelessly. For example, a person can drive **recklessly**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done without thinking or caring about the consequences of an action.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "drive **recklessly**," "act **recklessly**," "spend **recklessly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was driving **recklessly**, so he got into a car accident."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who act **recklessly**."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who spend **recklessly**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who act **recklessly**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **recklessly** decision can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **recklessly** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from acting **recklessly**."

**Synonyms**: Carelessly, heedlessly, rashly, irresponsibly, without caution.

**Opposite words**: Cautiously, carefully, prudently, responsibly, thoughtfully.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *reccan* (to care for).



.. _treat:

================================================================================
Treat
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/triːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To behave towards or deal with in a certain way; (Noun) An event or item that is out of the ordinary and gives great pleasure.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **behave toward someone or deal with something in a specific way**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **special pleasure** or indulgence.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**treat**" means to behave towards or deal with something in a certain way. As a **noun**, a "**treat**" is an event or item that is out of the ordinary and gives great pleasure. For example, a person can **treat** a new problem, or a person can get a new **treat**.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of behaving towards or dealing with something in a certain way, and the noun to refer to a special pleasure.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**treat** a person," "**treat** a disease," "**treat** a problem."
        * **(Noun)** "a special **treat**," "a little **treat**," "it's my **treat**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **treat** my new friend with respect, so we are very close."
            * "The new policy is designed to **treat** a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to **treat** a new disease."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **treat** a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **treat** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **treat** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **treat** a new disease."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Handle, manage, deal with, behave towards; (Noun) Pleasure, delight, gift, luxury.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Neglect, ignore, mistreat, harm; (Noun) Misery, hardship, chore.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *traitier* (to handle, to deal with).



.. _conventionally:

================================================================================
Conventionally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈvɛnʃənəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is based on or in accordance with what is generally done or believed.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**conventionally**" is to be **in a way that is traditional, customary, or widely accepted** by society.

**What it really means**: "**Conventionally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is based on what is generally done or believed. It suggests that a person is doing something in a normal way. For example, a person can dress **conventionally**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is based on what is generally done or believed.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "dressed **conventionally**," "think **conventionally**," "behave **conventionally**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am dressed **conventionally** today because I am going to a meeting."
            * "He thinks **conventionally**, so he is not a very creative person."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who behave **conventionally**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who behave **conventionally**."
            * "The study examines how a person's **conventionally** attitude can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **conventionally** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to be used **conventionally**."

**Synonyms**: Traditionally, customarily, ordinarily, normally, regularly.

**Opposite words**: Unconventionally, unusually, uniquely, originally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *conventio* (agreement, assembly).



.. _validate:

================================================================================
Validate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvælɪdeɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To check or prove the validity or accuracy of (something).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**validate**" is to **confirm, prove, or check the accuracy or legitimacy of something**. It can also mean to make someone feel that their feelings are justified.

**What it really means**: To "**validate**" means to check or prove the validity or accuracy of something. It is the act of confirming that something is true. For example, a new study can **validate** a new theory.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of checking or proving the validity or accuracy of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**validate** a theory," "**validate** a claim," "**validate** an argument."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new study is designed to **validate** the new theory, so it is a very important one."
            * "The new policy is designed to **validate** the new problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to **validate** the new ideas."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **validate** the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **validate** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **validate** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **validate** a new theory."

**Synonyms**: Confirm, prove, verify, substantiate, authenticate.

**Opposite words**: Invalidate, disprove, discredit, refute.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *validus* (strong, powerful).



.. _appreciate:

================================================================================
Appreciate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈpriːʃieɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To recognize the full worth of.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**appreciate**" is to **recognize the value or significance of something** or to be grateful for it.

**What it really means**: To "**appreciate**" means to recognize the full worth of something. It is the act of being grateful for something. For example, a person can **appreciate** a new gift.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of recognizing the full worth of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**appreciate** a gift," "**appreciate** a person," "**appreciate** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **appreciate** the new gift, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to make people **appreciate** the new government."
            * "The new law is designed to make people **appreciate** the new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to make people **appreciate** the new government."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **appreciate** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to make people **appreciate** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to make people **appreciate** the new system."

**Synonyms**: Value, cherish, be grateful for, be thankful for, recognize.

**Opposite words**: Disregard, undervalue, scorn, neglect, be ungrateful for.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *appretiare* (to value, to appraise).



.. _ancient:

================================================================================
Ancient
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈeɪnʃənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Belonging to the very distant past and no longer in existence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**ancient**" is to be **from a very long time ago**, relating to a historical period that is no longer current.

**What it really means**: "**Ancient**" is an adjective used to describe something that belongs to the very distant past. It suggests that a new thing is very old. For example, a new book can have **ancient** stories.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that belongs to the very distant past.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**ancient** history," "**ancient** civilization," "**ancient** stories."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I like to read about **ancient** history, so I am very interested in it."
            * "The new policy is based on **ancient** ideas, so it is not a good one."
            * "The new law is based on **ancient** laws."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is based on **ancient** ideas."
            * "The study examines how a person's **ancient** knowledge can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **ancient** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is a **ancient** one, so it will not work."

**Synonyms**: Old, historical, archaic, bygone, long ago.

**Opposite words**: Modern, new, recent, current, contemporary.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *ante* (before).



.. _slightly:

================================================================================
Slightly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈslaɪtli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a small degree; a little.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**slightly**" is to be **to a small extent or degree**, indicating a minor difference or change.

**What it really means**: "**Slightly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to a small degree. It suggests that a person is doing something a little bit. For example, a new project can be **slightly** different from the old one.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to a small degree.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**slightly** different," "**slightly** taller," "**slightly** better."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new project is **slightly** different from the old one, so I need to change it."
            * "He is **slightly** taller than me, so he is a good basketball player."
            * "The new law is **slightly** better than the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is **slightly** better than the old one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **slightly** different idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **slightly** different problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is **slightly** better than the old one."

**Synonyms**: A little, somewhat, a bit, marginally, minimally.

**Opposite words**: Greatly, considerably, immensely, significantly, very.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *sliht* (smooth).



.. _decline:

================================================================================
Decline
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈklaɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To become smaller, fewer, or less; (Noun) A gradual and continuous loss of strength, numbers, or value.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **decrease in quantity, quality, or strength** or to refuse an offer. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **gradual decrease or a downward trend**.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**decline**" means to become smaller, fewer, or less. As a **noun**, a "**decline**" is a gradual and continuous loss of strength, numbers, or value. For example, a new company can **decline** in value.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of becoming smaller, fewer, or less, and the noun to refer to a gradual and continuous loss of strength, numbers, or value.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**decline** in value," "**decline** a request," "**decline** an invitation."
        * **(Noun)** "a rapid **decline**," "a slow **decline**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company's value is **declineing**, so I need to sell my shares."
            * "I had to **decline** the new invitation because I was too busy."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **decline** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **decline** of a new country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **decline** in health can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **decline** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is in **decline**."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Decrease, diminish, reduce, refuse, reject; (Noun) Decrease, reduction, downturn, deterioration.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Increase, grow, accept; (Noun) Increase, growth, rise, improvement.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *declinare* (to bend down).



.. _offend:

================================================================================
Offend
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈfɛnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To cause to feel upset, annoyed, or resentful.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**offend**" is to **cause someone to feel upset, annoyed, or insulted**, often by a remark or action that is disrespectful.

**What it really means**: To "**offend**" means to cause to feel upset, annoyed, or resentful. It is the act of saying or doing something that makes someone unhappy. For example, a person can **offend** someone with a new joke.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of causing to feel upset, annoyed, or resentful.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**offend** a person," "**offend** a group," "**offend** a country."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **offended** me with his new joke, so I don't want to talk to him anymore."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **offend** others."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **offend** the new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **offend** others."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **offend** others can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **offend** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from **offending** others."

**Synonyms**: Insult, upset, annoy, displease, anger.

**Opposite words**: Please, delight, soothe, compliment, appease.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *offendere* (to strike against).



.. _susceptible:

================================================================================
Susceptible
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈsɛptəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**susceptible**" is to be **easily influenced, affected, or harmed by something**, making one vulnerable.

**What it really means**: "**Susceptible**" is an adjective used to describe someone who is likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing. It suggests that a person can be easily affected by something. For example, a person can be **susceptible** to a new disease.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is likely or liable to be influenced or harmed by a particular thing.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**susceptible** to," "**susceptible** to a disease," "**susceptible** to a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am **susceptible** to the new disease, so I need to be careful."
            * "He is **susceptible** to a new idea, so he is a very creative person."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who are **susceptible** to a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who are **susceptible** to a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **susceptibleity** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **susceptibleity** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help the people who are **susceptible** to a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Vulnerable, prone, exposed, open, liable.

**Opposite words**: Immune, resistant, invulnerable, unaffected, protected.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *suscipere* (to take up).



.. _hostile:

================================================================================
Hostile
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɒstaɪl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Unfriendly; antagonistic.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**hostile**" is to be **unfriendly, aggressive, or opposed to something**, creating an environment of antagonism.

**What it really means**: "**Hostile**" is an adjective used to describe someone who is unfriendly or antagonistic. It suggests that a person is not a friend. For example, a new person can be **hostile**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is unfriendly or antagonistic.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **hostile** environment," "a **hostile** person," "a **hostile** attitude."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a **hostile** attitude, so I don't want to talk to him anymore."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who have a **hostile** attitude."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **hostile** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who have a **hostile** attitude."
            * "The study examines how a person's **hostile** attitude can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **hostile** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent a **hostile** environment."

**Synonyms**: Unfriendly, antagonistic, aggressive, confrontational, belligerent.

**Opposite words**: Friendly, amicable, welcoming, peaceful, cooperative.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *hostilis* (of an enemy).



.. _healthy:

================================================================================
Healthy
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɛlθi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a good physical or mental condition.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**healthy**" is to be **in a state of good physical, mental, or social well-being**, free from illness or disease.

**What it really means**: "**Healthy**" is an adjective used to describe someone who is in a good physical or mental condition. It suggests that a person is not sick. For example, a person can be **healthy**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe someone who is in a good physical or mental condition.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **healthy** person," "a **healthy** lifestyle," "a **healthy** diet."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am a **healthy** person, so I can do a lot of things."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **healthy** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **healthy** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **healthy** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **healthy** lifestyle can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **healthy** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people live a **healthy** life."

**Synonyms**: Well, fit, sound, vigorous, wholesome.

**Opposite words**: Unhealthy, sick, ill, unwell, weak.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *hæl* (health).


.. _diversity:

================================================================================
Diversity
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/daɪˈvɜːrsɪti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of having a wide variety of different types of things or people.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**diversity**" is the **presence of many different kinds of people, ideas, or things in a group**, which can lead to a richer environment.

**What it really means**: "**Diversity**" is a noun that refers to the state of having a wide variety of different types of things or people. It suggests that a new group has a lot of different people. For example, a new company can have a lot of **diversity**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of having a wide variety of different types of things or people.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "cultural **diversity**," "biodiversity," "workplace **diversity**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company has a lot of **diversity**, so it is a very interesting one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **diversity** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **diversity** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **diversity** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **diversity** of ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **diversity** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **diversity** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Variety, assortment, heterogeneity, multiplicity, mix.

**Opposite words**: Sameness, uniformity, homogeneity, monotony.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *diversitas* (difference).



.. _reflection:

================================================================================
Reflection
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈflɛkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The throwing back of light, heat, or sound without absorbing it; serious thought or consideration.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**reflection**" is the **image cast back from a surface**, or the **process of deep, careful thought** about something.

**What it really means**: "**Reflection**" is a noun that refers to the throwing back of light, heat, or sound, or the act of thinking deeply about something. It suggests that a new thing is being thought about. For example, a new mirror can have a new **reflection**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the throwing back of light, heat, or sound, or the act of thinking deeply about something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a moment of **reflection**," "a mirror **reflection**," "a deep **reflection**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am having a moment of **reflection**, so I don't want to talk to anyone."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **reflection** of a new idea."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **reflection** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **reflection** of a new idea."
            * "The study examines how a person's **reflection** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **reflection** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **reflection** of a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Thought, contemplation, meditation, consideration, image, echo.

**Opposite words**: Carelessness, thoughtlessness, directness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *reflectere* (to bend back).



.. _commitment:

================================================================================
Commitment
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˈmɪtmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state or quality of being dedicated to a cause or activity.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**commitment**" is a **promise or dedication to do something**, or the state of being bound to a course of action.

**What it really means**: "**Commitment**" is a noun that refers to the state or quality of being dedicated to a cause or activity. It suggests that a new person is very dedicated. For example, a new person can have a lot of **commitment**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state or quality of being dedicated to a cause or activity.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a strong **commitment**," "a long-term **commitment**," "a sense of **commitment**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a strong **commitment** to his new job, so he is a very good employee."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **commitment** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **commitment** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **commitment** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **commitment** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **commitment** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **commitment** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Dedication, devotion, pledge, promise, obligation.

**Opposite words**: Indifference, apathy, unreliability, disloyalty.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *committere* (to entrust).



.. _harshly:

================================================================================
Harshly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɑːrʃli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a severe, cruel, or unkind way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**harshly**" is to be **acting in a severe, strict, or cruel manner**.

**What it really means**: "**Harshly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a severe, cruel, or unkind way. It suggests that a new person is being treated badly. For example, a new person can be treated **harshly**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a severe, cruel, or unkind way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "judge **harshly**," "criticize **harshly**," "treat **harshly**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was treated **harshly** by his new boss, so he is very sad."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who treat others **harshly**."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who are treated **harshly**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who treat others **harshly**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to be treated **harshly** can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who are treated **harshly**."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from treating others **harshly**."

**Synonyms**: Severely, cruelly, unkindly, sternly, stringently.

**Opposite words**: Gently, kindly, leniently, softly, mildly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old Norse *harr* (rough, crude).



.. _replace:

================================================================================
Replace
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈpleɪs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To take the place of.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**replace**" is to **take the place of something or someone that is no longer present or useful**.

**What it really means**: To "**replace**" means to take the place of something. It is the act of putting a new thing in the place of an old one. For example, a new car can **replace** an old one.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of taking the place of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**replace** a new car," "**replace** a new employee," "**replace** a new part."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to **replace** my old car with a new one, so I am very excited."
            * "The new policy is designed to **replace** the old one."
            * "The new law is designed to **replace** the old one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **replace** the old one."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **replace** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **replace** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **replace** the old one."

**Synonyms**: Substitute, supersede, supplant, exchange, take over.

**Opposite words**: Keep, retain, maintain, hold on to.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *replacer* (to place again).



.. _primarily:

================================================================================
Primarily
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpraɪmərɪli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: For the most part; mainly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**primarily**" is to be **for the most part**, or to be the most important aspect of something.

**What it really means**: "**Primarily**" is an adverb used to describe something that is for the most part. It suggests that a new thing is the main reason for something. For example, a new problem is **primarily** caused by a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is for the most part.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**primarily** because of," "**primarily** for," "**primarily** to."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new problem is **primarily** because of a new thing, so we need to fix it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that are **primarily** caused by a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that are **primarily** caused by a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that are **primarily** caused by a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **primarily** focus on a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that are **primarily** caused by a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that are **primarily** caused by a new system."

**Synonyms**: Mainly, chiefly, mostly, essentially, fundamentally.

**Opposite words**: Secondarily, incidentally, unimportantly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *primarius* (of the first rank).



.. _industry:

================================================================================
Industry
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɪndəstri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: Economic activity concerned with the processing of raw materials and manufacture of goods in factories.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**industry**" is a **group of businesses that produce a specific type of goods or services**. It also means diligence or hard work.

**What it really means**: "**Industry**" is a noun that refers to economic activity concerned with the processing of raw materials and manufacture of goods in factories. It suggests that a new place has a lot of new factories. For example, a new city can have a lot of new **industry**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to economic activity concerned with the processing of raw materials and manufacture of goods in factories.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "the manufacturing **industry**," "the food **industry**," "the fashion **industry**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new city has a lot of new **industry**, so it has a lot of new jobs."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **industry** of a new country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **industry** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **industry** of a new country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **industry** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **industry** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **industry** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Business, sector, trade, commerce, manufacturing.

**Opposite words**: Agriculture, idleness, laziness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *industria* (diligence).



.. _image:

================================================================================
Image
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɪmɪdʒ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A representation of the external form of a person or thing in art.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**image**" is a **visual representation of something**, or a person's reputation or public perception.

**What it really means**: "**Image**" is a noun that refers to a representation of the external form of a person or thing in art. It suggests that a new thing is being shown. For example, a new photo can be a new **image**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a representation of the external form of a person or thing in art.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a digital **image**," "a public **image**," "a company **image**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to get a new **image** for my new profile, so I am going to take a new photo."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **image** of a new country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **image** of a new company."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **image** of a new country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **image** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **image** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **image** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Picture, likeness, representation, reputation, persona.

**Opposite words**: Reality, substance, object, non-image.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *imago* (likeness).



.. _heavily:

================================================================================
Heavily
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhɛvɪli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To a great degree; in large amounts.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**heavily**" is to be **to a great degree or in large amounts**, often suggesting something is difficult or intense.

**What it really means**: "**Heavily**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to a great degree. It suggests that a new thing is being done a lot. For example, a new project is being worked on **heavily**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to a great degree.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "rain **heavily**," "rely **heavily** on," "invest **heavily**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new project is being worked on **heavily**, so it will be done soon."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who rely **heavily** on a new system."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who rely **heavily** on a new system."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who rely **heavily** on a new system."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to rely **heavily** on a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who rely **heavily** on a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the people who rely **heavily** on a new system."

**Synonyms**: Greatly, intensely, extensively, strongly, severely.

**Opposite words**: Lightly, slightly, gently, minimally.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *hefig* (heavy).



.. _worsen:

================================================================================
Worsen
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈwɜːrsən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To make or become worse.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**worsen**" is to **make something that is already bad become even more so**.

**What it really means**: To "**worsen**" means to make or become worse. It is the act of making a bad thing even worse. For example, a new problem can **worsen** a new situation.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of making or becoming worse.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**worsen** a situation," "**worsen** a problem," "**worsen** a disease."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new problem is going to **worsen** the situation, so we need to fix it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **worsen** a new situation."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **worsen** a new situation."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **worsen** a new situation."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **worsen** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **worsen** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from **worsening** a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Aggravate, deteriorate, exacerbate, decline, intensify.

**Opposite words**: Improve, better, alleviate, enhance, help.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *wyrsa* (worse).



.. _redundancy:

================================================================================
Redundancy
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈdʌndənsi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being no longer needed or useful.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**redundancy**" is the **state of being no longer needed**, especially in employment, or the repetition of information that is unnecessary.

**What it really means**: "**Redundancy**" is a noun that refers to the state of being no longer needed or useful. It suggests that a new person is being laid off. For example, a new company can have a lot of **redundancy**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of being no longer needed or useful.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "job **redundancy**," "mass **redundancy**," "functional **redundancy**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company has a lot of **redundancy**, so a lot of people are going to lose their jobs."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **redundancy** of a new resource."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **redundancy** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **redundancy** of a new resource."
            * "The study examines how a person's **redundancy** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **redundancy** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **redundancy** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Superfluity, surplus, excess, unnecessary, duplication.

**Opposite words**: Necessity, essentiality, usefulness, need.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *redundare* (to overflow).



.. _defend:

================================================================================
Defend
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈfɛnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To protect from harm or danger.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**defend**" is to **protect someone or something from attack or harm**.

**What it really means**: To "**defend**" means to protect from harm or danger. It is the act of protecting a person or a thing. For example, a new person can **defend** a new country.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of protecting from harm or danger.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**defend** a country," "**defend** a person," "**defend** a new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new person is going to **defend** the new country, so he is a very brave one."
            * "The new policy is designed to **defend** the new rights."
            * "The new law is designed to **defend** the new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **defend** the new rights."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **defend** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **defend** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **defend** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Protect, guard, shield, safeguard, uphold.

**Opposite words**: Attack, assault, surrender, abandon, betray.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *defendere* (to ward off).



.. _specialty:

================================================================================
Specialty
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈspɛʃəlti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A pursuit, area of study, or skill to which someone has devoted much time and effort.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**specialty**" is a **particular area of skill, knowledge, or expertise** that someone is an expert in.

**What it really means**: "**Specialty**" is a noun that refers to a pursuit, area of study, or skill to which someone has devoted much time and effort. It suggests that a new person is very good at a new thing. For example, a new person's **specialty** is a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a pursuit, area of study, or skill to which someone has devoted much time and effort.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a medical **specialty**," "a culinary **specialty**," "a new **specialty**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "His new **specialty** is a new thing, so he is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **specialty** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **specialty** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **specialty** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **specialty** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **specialty** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **specialty** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Expertise, field, forte, niche, area of focus.

**Opposite words**: Incompetence, amateurism, generality, lack of skill.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *species* (kind, sort).



.. _structure:

================================================================================
Structure
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈstrʌktʃər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) The arrangement of and relations between the parts of something; (Verb) To construct or arrange according to a plan.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is the **way something is arranged and organized**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **organize or arrange something** in a particular way.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**structure**" refers to the arrangement of and relations between the parts of something. As a **verb**, to "**structure**" means to construct or arrange according to a plan. For example, a new building can have a new **structure**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to the arrangement of and relations between the parts of something, and the verb to refer to the act of constructing or arranging according to a plan.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a solid **structure**," "the **structure** of an essay," "social **structure**."
        * **(Verb)** "**structure** an argument," "**structure** a new lesson."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new building has a new **structure**, so it is a very interesting one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **structure** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **structure** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **structure** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **structure** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **structure** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **structure** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Arrangement, organization, composition, framework; (Verb) Organize, arrange, construct, design.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Disorganization, chaos, mess; (Verb) Disorder, disorganize.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *struere* (to build).



.. _efficiently:

================================================================================
Efficiently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈfɪʃəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that achieves maximum productivity with minimum wasted effort or expense.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**efficiently**" is to be **performing a task well, without wasting time or resources**.

**What it really means**: "**Efficiently**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that achieves maximum productivity with minimum wasted effort or expense. It suggests that a new thing is being done well. For example, a new person is working **efficiently**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that achieves maximum productivity with minimum wasted effort or expense.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "work **efficiently**," "operate **efficiently**," "use **efficiently**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is working **efficiently**, so he will be done soon."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people work **efficiently**."
            * "The new law is designed to help people work **efficiently**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people work **efficiently**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to work **efficiently** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help people work **efficiently**."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people work **efficiently**."

**Synonyms**: Effectively, competently, productively, skillfully, quickly.

**Opposite words**: Inefficiently, wastefully, ineffectively, poorly, slowly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *efficere* (to accomplish).



.. _attend:

================================================================================
Attend
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈtɛnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To be present at (an event, meeting, or institution).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**attend**" is to **be present at a place or an event**, or to pay attention to something.

**What it really means**: To "**attend**" means to be present at an event, meeting, or institution. It is the act of going to a new place. For example, a person can **attend** a new meeting.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of being present at an event, meeting, or institution.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**attend** a meeting," "**attend** a school," "**attend** a new event."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to **attend** the new meeting, so I will be there soon."
            * "The new policy is designed to encourage people to **attend** a new event."
            * "The new law is designed to encourage people to **attend** a new school."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to encourage people to **attend** a new event."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **attend** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to encourage people to **attend** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **attend** a new event."

**Synonyms**: Be present, be there, go to, show up, participate in.

**Opposite words**: Be absent, miss, skip, ignore.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *attendere* (to give heed to).



.. _inaccurately:

================================================================================
Inaccurately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈækjʊrətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is not accurate or correct.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**inaccurately**" is to be **done in a way that is not correct or precise**.

**What it really means**: "**Inaccurately**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is not accurate or correct. It suggests that a new thing is being done wrong. For example, a new person is talking **inaccurately**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is not accurate or correct.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "report **inaccurately**," "state **inaccurately**," "measure **inaccurately**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was talking **inaccurately**, so I don't believe him anymore."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who talk **inaccurately**."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who talk **inaccurately**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who talk **inaccurately**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to talk **inaccurately** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who talk **inaccurately**."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from talking **inaccurately**."

**Synonyms**: Incorrectly, wrongly, mistakenly, erroneously, imprecisely.

**Opposite words**: Accurately, correctly, precisely, exactly, rightly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *in-* (not) and *accuratus* (careful).



.. _wide:

================================================================================
Wide
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/waɪd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Of great or more than average width.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**wide**" is to have a **large distance from one side to the other**, or to be extensive in scope.

**What it really means**: "**Wide**" is an adjective used to describe something that is of great or more than average width. It suggests that a new thing is very big. For example, a new river can be very **wide**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is of great or more than average width.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **wide** range," "a **wide** road," "a **wide** smile."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new river is very **wide**, so it is a very beautiful one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **wide** range of problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **wide** range of problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **wide** range of problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **wide** range of ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **wide** range of problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **wide** range of problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Broad, extensive, expansive, vast, comprehensive.

**Opposite words**: Narrow, thin, limited, restricted, small.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *wid* (wide).



.. _ability:

================================================================================
Ability
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈbɪləti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The power or skill to do something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**ability**" is the **possession of the means or skill to do something successfully**.

**What it really means**: "**Ability**" is a noun that refers to the power or skill to do something. It suggests that a new person is very good at a new thing. For example, a new person can have a new **ability**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the power or skill to do something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a great **ability**," "a natural **ability**," "the **ability** to do something."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a great **ability** to do a new thing, so he is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **ability** of people to do new things."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **ability** of people to do new things."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **ability** of people to do new things."
            * "The study examines how a person's **ability** to do a new job can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **ability** of people to do new things."
            * "The new technology is designed to give people a new **ability**."

**Synonyms**: Skill, talent, capacity, aptitude, competence.

**Opposite words**: Inability, incompetence, incapacity, lack of skill.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *habilis* (able, fit).



.. _eventually:

================================================================================
Eventually
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈvɛntʃuəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In the end, especially after a long delay, dispute, or series of problems.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**eventually**" is to be **happening at some later time**, especially after a long process or a series of events.

**What it really means**: "**Eventually**" is an adverb used to describe something that happens in the end. It suggests that a new thing is going to happen, but it will take some time. For example, a new problem will be fixed **eventually**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happens in the end.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "will **eventually** happen," "will **eventually** be done," "will **eventually** be fixed."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new problem will be fixed **eventually**, so we don't need to worry about it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that will **eventually** happen."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that will **eventually** happen."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that will **eventually** happen."
            * "The study examines how a person's **eventually** decision can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that will **eventually** happen."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that will **eventually** happen."

**Synonyms**: Finally, ultimately, in the end, in due course, at last.

**Opposite words**: Immediately, now, instantly, right away.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *eventus* (outcome).



.. _fortunately:

================================================================================
Fortunately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɔːrtʃənətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: By good fortune; luckily.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**fortunately**" is to be **happening because of good luck or a positive turn of events**.

**What it really means**: "**Fortunately**" is an adverb used to describe something that happens by good fortune. It suggests that a new thing is a good thing. For example, a new person found a new job, **fortunately**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that happens by good fortune.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**fortunately**, I have," "**fortunately**, he was," "**fortunately**, the new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "**Fortunately**, I found a new job, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **fortunately** didn't happen."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **fortunately** didn't happen."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **fortunately** didn't happen."
            * "The study examines how a person's **fortunately** decision can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **fortunately** didn't happen."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **fortunately** didn't happen."

**Synonyms**: Luckily, luckily, happily, providentially.

**Opposite words**: Unfortunately, sadly, regrettably, unluckily.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *fortuna* (luck).



.. _sanction:

================================================================================
Sanction
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsæŋkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A threatened penalty for disobeying a law or rule; (Verb) To give official permission for.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **penalty for breaking a rule**, often used by a government. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **give official approval or permission**.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**sanction**" refers to a threatened penalty for disobeying a law or rule. As a **verb**, to "**sanction**" means to give official permission for. For example, a new country can have a new **sanction**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a threatened penalty for disobeying a law or rule, and the verb to refer to the act of giving official permission for.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "economic **sanctions**," "international **sanctions**," "impose **sanctions**."
        * **(Verb)** "**sanction** a new law," "**sanction** a new policy."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new country has a new **sanction**, so it is in a lot of trouble."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **sanction** of a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **sanction** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **sanction** of a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **sanction** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **sanction** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **sanction** of a new problem."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Penalty, punishment, restriction, embargo; (Verb) Approve, authorize, permit, ratify.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Reward, approval; (Verb) Forbid, prohibit, veto, reject.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sanctio* (to make holy, to make binding).



.. _inhibition:

================================================================================
Inhibition
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪnhɪˈbɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A feeling that makes one self-conscious and unable to act in a relaxed or natural way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**inhibition**" is a **feeling of self-consciousness or restraint** that prevents a person from acting freely or naturally.

**What it really means**: "**Inhibition**" is a noun that refers to a feeling that makes one self-conscious and unable to act in a relaxed or natural way. It suggests that a new person is feeling very shy. For example, a new person can have a lot of **inhibition**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a feeling that makes one self-conscious and unable to act in a relaxed or natural way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a lack of **inhibition**," "social **inhibition**," "shed **inhibitions**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a lot of **inhibitions**, so he can't talk to anyone."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **inhibition** of a new idea."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **inhibition** of a new idea."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **inhibition** of a new idea."
            * "The study examines how a person's **inhibition** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **inhibition** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **inhibition** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Shyness, restraint, self-consciousness, reluctance, reserve.

**Opposite words**: Confidence, freedom, spontaneity, extroversion.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *inhibere* (to hold in).



.. _offensive:

================================================================================
Offensive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈfɛnsɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Causing someone to feel deeply hurt, upset, or angry.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**offensive**" is to be **causing insult, annoyance, or displeasure**, or to be related to an attack.

**What it really means**: "**Offensive**" is an adjective used to describe something that causes someone to feel deeply hurt, upset, or angry. It suggests that a new thing is not nice. For example, a new joke can be very **offensive**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that causes someone to feel deeply hurt, upset, or angry.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **offensive** joke," "an **offensive** remark," "an **offensive** smell."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new joke was very **offensive**, so I don't want to talk to him anymore."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **offensive** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **offensive** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **offensive** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **offensive** attitude can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **offensive** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from acting **offensively**."

**Synonyms**: Insulting, rude, disrespectful, distasteful, aggressive.

**Opposite words**: Inoffensive, polite, respectful, pleasant, agreeable.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *offendere* (to strike against).



.. _pretend:

================================================================================
Pretend
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈtɛnd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To behave so as to make it appear that something is the case when in fact it is not.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**pretend**" is to **behave as if something is true when it is not**, or to make believe.

**What it really means**: To "**pretend**" means to behave so as to make it appear that something is the case when in fact it is not. It is the act of acting. For example, a new child can **pretend** to be a new superhero.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of behaving so as to make it appear that something is the case when in fact it is not.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**pretend** to be a new person," "**pretend** to be happy," "**pretend** to be a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new child is going to **pretend** to be a new superhero, so he is very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **pretend** to be something they are not."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **pretend** to be something they are not."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **pretend** to be something they are not."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **pretend** can affect their mental health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **pretend** to be something they are not."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from **pretending** to be something they are not."

**Synonyms**: Feign, simulate, act, make believe, fake.

**Opposite words**: Be real, be genuine, be authentic, confess.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praetendere* (to stretch forth).



.. _investment:

================================================================================
Investment
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈvɛstmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action or process of investing money for profit or material result.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**investment**" is the **act of putting money or time into something** with the expectation of a future return or benefit.

**What it really means**: "**Investment**" is a noun that refers to the action or process of investing money for profit or material result. It suggests that a new thing is being put into something. For example, a new person can make a new **investment**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action or process of investing money for profit or material result.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a financial **investment**," "a good **investment**," "a new **investment**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to make a new **investment**, so I can make a lot of money."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **investment** of a new resource."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **investment** of a new resource."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **investment** of a new resource."
            * "The study examines how a person's **investment** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **investment** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **investment** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Capital, fund, stake, venture, spending.

**Opposite words**: Divestment, withdrawal, disinvestment, loss.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *investire* (to clothe).



.. _celebration:

================================================================================
Celebration
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌsɛlɪˈbreɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of celebrating something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**celebration**" is an **event or gathering to honor or show happiness for a special occasion or achievement**.

**What it really means**: "**Celebration**" is a noun that refers to the action of celebrating something. It suggests that a new thing is being celebrated. For example, a new person can have a new **celebration**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of celebrating something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a birthday **celebration**," "a wedding **celebration**," "a new **celebration**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to have a new **celebration** for my birthday, so I am very excited."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **celebration** of a new idea."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **celebration** of a new idea."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **celebration** of a new idea."
            * "The study examines how a person's **celebration** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **celebration** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help with the **celebration** of a new event."

**Synonyms**: Party, festivity, commemoration, ceremony, tribute.

**Opposite words**: Mourning, grief, sadness, solemnity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *celebrare* (to frequent, to honor).



.. _diminish:

================================================================================
Diminish
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈmɪnɪʃ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To make or become less.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**diminish**" is to **make something smaller, less important, or less intense**.

**What it really means**: To "**diminish**" means to make or become less. It is the act of making something smaller. For example, a new problem can **diminish** a new resource.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of making or becoming less.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**diminish** a problem," "**diminish** a resource," "**diminish** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new problem is going to **diminish** our new resource, so we need to fix it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **diminish** a new resource."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **diminish** a new resource."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **diminish** a new resource."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **diminish** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **diminish** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from **diminishing** a new resource."

**Synonyms**: Decrease, lessen, reduce, dwindle, shrink.

**Opposite words**: Increase, grow, enlarge, expand, multiply.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *minuere* (to lessen).



.. _divide:

================================================================================
Divide
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈvaɪd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To separate into parts; (Noun) A point of disagreement or a distinction.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **separate something into two or more parts**. The core meaning of the **noun** is a **split or a difference** between two groups or ideas.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**divide**" means to separate into parts. As a **noun**, a "**divide**" is a point of disagreement or a distinction. For example, a new person can **divide** a new group.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of separating into parts, and the noun to refer to a point of disagreement or a distinction.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**divide** a group," "**divide** a country," "**divide** a new idea."
        * **(Noun)** "a social **divide**," "a political **divide**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new person is going to **divide** the new group, so it is a very bad one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **divide** in a new country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **divide** in a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **divide** in a new country."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **divide** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **divide** in a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **divide** in a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Split, separate, partition, sever; (Noun) Split, schism, rift, chasm.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Unite, join, combine, merge; (Noun) Unity, agreement, union, harmony.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *dividere* (to force apart).



.. _designate:

================================================================================
Designate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɛzɪɡneɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To appoint (someone) to a specified office or post.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**designate**" is to **officially name or appoint someone to a role**, or to indicate or mark something for a specific purpose.

**What it really means**: To "**designate**" means to appoint someone to a specified office or post. It is the act of choosing a person for a new job. For example, a new person can be **designated** as a new leader.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of appointing someone to a specified office or post.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**designate** a new leader," "**designate** a new place," "**designate** a new time."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He was **designated** as the new leader, so he is very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to **designate** a new place for a new event."
            * "The new law is designed to **designate** a new time for a new meeting."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **designate** a new place for a new event."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **designate** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **designate** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **designate** a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Appoint, nominate, select, name, specify.

**Opposite words**: Dismiss, fire, ignore, remove.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *designare* (to mark out).



.. _descriptive:

================================================================================
Descriptive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈskrɪptɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Serving or seeking to describe.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**descriptive**" is to be **providing a detailed account or description of something**.

**What it really means**: "**Descriptive**" is an adjective used to describe something that is serving or seeking to describe. It suggests that a new thing is being described a lot. For example, a new book can be very **descriptive**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is serving or seeking to describe.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **descriptive** essay," "a **descriptive** passage," "a **descriptive** word."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new book is very **descriptive**, so I can imagine what is happening."
            * "The new policy is designed to be **descriptive** of a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to be **descriptive** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be **descriptive** of a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **descriptive** writing can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to be **descriptive** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be **descriptive** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Detailed, illustrative, expressive, vivid, explanatory.

**Opposite words**: Vague, uninformative, brief, concise.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *describere* (to write down).



.. _irrelevant:

================================================================================
Irrelevant
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈrɛlɪvənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not connected with or relevant to something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**irrelevant**" is to be **not related to the topic at hand**, and therefore unimportant.

**What it really means**: "**Irrelevant**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not connected with or relevant to something. It suggests that a new thing is not important. For example, a new question can be **irrelevant**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not connected with or relevant to something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **irrelevant** question," "an **irrelevant** detail," "an **irrelevant** comment."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new question was **irrelevant**, so I didn't answer it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **irrelevant** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **irrelevant** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **irrelevant** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **irrelevant** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **irrelevant** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **irrelevant** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Unrelated, unconnected, extraneous, beside the point.

**Opposite words**: Relevant, pertinent, applicable, significant, important.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *ir-* (not) and *relevant* (relevant).


.. _beneficial:

================================================================================
Beneficial
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌbɛnɪˈfɪʃəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Favorable or advantageous; resulting in good.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**beneficial**" is to be **having a positive effect or result**, often in a helpful or advantageous way.

**What it really means**: "**Beneficial**" is an adjective used to describe something that is favorable or advantageous; resulting in good. It suggests that a new thing is a good thing. For example, a new policy can be very **beneficial**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is favorable or advantageous; resulting in good.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **beneficial** effect," "a **beneficial** change," "a **beneficial** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is very **beneficial**, so it is a very good one."
            * "The new law is designed to be **beneficial** for everyone."
            * "The new technology is designed to be **beneficial** for a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be **beneficial** for everyone."
            * "The study examines how a person's **beneficial** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to be **beneficial** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be **beneficial** for a new system."

**Synonyms**: Advantageous, helpful, useful, profitable, favorable.

**Opposite words**: Detrimental, harmful, disadvantageous, unhelpful.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *bene* (well) and *facere* (to do).



.. _predictor:

================================================================================
Predictor
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈdɪktər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A person or thing that is able to predict something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**predictor**" is a **variable, factor, or person that can be used to forecast a future outcome** or event.

**What it really means**: "**Predictor**" is a noun that refers to a person or thing that is able to predict something. It suggests that a new thing can be used to predict a new thing. For example, a new study can be a **predictor** of a new problem.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a person or thing that is able to predict something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a good **predictor**," "a strong **predictor**," "a new **predictor**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new study is a good **predictor** of the new problem, so we need to address it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **predictor** of a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **predictor** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **predictor** of a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **predictor** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **predictor** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **predictor** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Forecaster, indicator, prognosticator, sign, omen.

**Opposite words**: Unknown, surprise, random, chance.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *prae-* (before) and *dicere* (to say).



.. _intention:

================================================================================
Intention
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈtɛnʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A thing intended; an aim or plan.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**intention**" is a **person's plan or aim**, or the purpose behind their actions.

**What it really means**: "**Intention**" is a noun that refers to a thing intended; an aim or plan. It suggests that a new person has a new plan. For example, a new person's **intention** is a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a thing intended; an aim or plan.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a good **intention**," "a bad **intention**," "a clear **intention**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "His **intention** is to get a new job, so he is working very hard."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **intention** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **intention** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **intention** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **intention** to do a new thing can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **intention** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **intention** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Aim, purpose, goal, plan, objective.

**Opposite words**: Accident, chance, coincidence, aimlessness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *intendere* (to stretch toward).



.. _temperature:

================================================================================
Temperature
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtɛmprətʃər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The degree or intensity of heat present in a substance or object.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**temperature**" is the **degree of heat or cold in a person, place, or thing**, or the measure of it.

**What it really means**: "**Temperature**" is a noun that refers to the degree or intensity of heat present in a substance or object. It suggests that a new place is very hot or cold. For example, a new place can have a new **temperature**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the degree or intensity of heat present in a substance or object.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "high **temperature**," "low **temperature**," "body **temperature**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new place has a very high **temperature**, so I don't want to go there."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **temperature** of a new place."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **temperature** of a new place."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **temperature** of a new place."
            * "The study examines how a person's **temperature** can affect their health."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **temperature** of a new place."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **temperature** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Heat, warmth, coldness, fever, climate.

**Opposite words**: Cold, chill, coolness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *temperare* (to mix, to moderate).



.. _exaggerate:

================================================================================
Exaggerate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪɡˈzædʒəreɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To represent something as being larger, better, or worse than it really is.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**exaggerate**" is to **make something seem more important, impressive, or severe than it actually is**.

**What it really means**: To "**exaggerate**" means to represent something as being larger, better, or worse than it really is. It is the act of making something seem bigger than it is. For example, a new person can **exaggerate** a new problem.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of representing something as being larger, better, or worse than it really is.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**exaggerate** a problem," "**exaggerate** a story," "**exaggerate** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **exaggerate** the new problem, so I don't believe him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **exaggerate** a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **exaggerate** a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **exaggerate** a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **exaggerate** can affect their credibility."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **exaggerate** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to prevent people from **exaggerateing** a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Overstate, embellish, inflate, amplify, magnify.

**Opposite words**: Understate, minimize, downplay, lessen.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *exaggerare* (to heap up).



.. _frequent:

================================================================================
Frequent
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfriːkwənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adjective) Happening or done often; (Verb) To visit a place often.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **happening or appearing often**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **visit a place regularly**.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**frequent**" describes something that happens often. As a **verb**, to "**frequent**" means to visit a place often. For example, a new person can be a **frequent** visitor to a new place.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to describe something that happens often, and the verb to refer to the act of visiting a place often.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **frequent** visitor," "a **frequent** problem," "a **frequent** new idea."
        * **(Verb)** "**frequent** a new place," "**frequent** a new store."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a **frequent** visitor to the new place, so he knows a lot about it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **frequent** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **frequent** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **frequent** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **frequent** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **frequent** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **frequent** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: (Adjective) Common, repeated, regular, numerous; (Verb) Patronize, haunt, visit often.

**Opposite words**: (Adjective) Infrequent, rare, occasional, seldom; (Verb) Avoid, shun.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *frequens* (crowded, numerous).



.. _findings:

================================================================================
Findings
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfaɪndɪŋz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun (Plural)*
* **Simple Meaning**: The results of an investigation or inquiry.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**findings**" is the **results, conclusions, or information that are discovered or revealed** after an investigation or study.

**What it really means**: "**Findings**" is a plural noun that refers to the results of an investigation or inquiry. It suggests that a new study has new results. For example, a new study can have new **findings**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the results of an investigation or inquiry.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "research **findings**," "study **findings**," "report **findings**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new study has new **findings**, so we need to address them."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **findings** of a new study."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **findings** of a new report."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **findings** of a new study."
            * "The study examines how a person's **findings** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **findings** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **findings** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Results, conclusions, discoveries, outcomes, data.

**Opposite words**: Hypotheses, assumptions, unknowns, speculations.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *findan* (to find).



.. _distinguish:

================================================================================
Distinguish
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstɪŋɡwɪʃ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To recognize or treat (someone or something) as different.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**distinguish**" is to **recognize a difference between two or more things**, or to make something stand out.

**What it really means**: To "**distinguish**" means to recognize or treat someone or something as different. It is the act of seeing the difference between two things. For example, a new person can **distinguish** between two things.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of recognizing or treating someone or something as different.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**distinguish** between two things," "**distinguish** oneself," "**distinguish** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He can **distinguish** between two things, so he is a very smart person."
            * "The new policy is designed to **distinguish** between two problems."
            * "The new law is designed to **distinguish** between two problems."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **distinguish** between two problems."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **distinguish** between two ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **distinguish** between two laws."
            * "The new technology is designed to **distinguish** between two systems."

**Synonyms**: Differentiate, separate, tell apart, discern, recognize.

**Opposite words**: Confuse, mix up, obscure, blend.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *distinguere* (to separate).



.. _revival:

================================================================================
Revival
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈvaɪvəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An improvement in the condition or strength of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**revival**" is a **return to life or health**, or a renewed interest in something.

**What it really means**: "**Revival**" is a noun that refers to an improvement in the condition or strength of something. It suggests that a new thing is being brought back to life. For example, a new project can have a new **revival**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an improvement in the condition or strength of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "an economic **revival**," "a cultural **revival**," "a new **revival**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new project is going to have a new **revival**, so it is going to be a good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **revival** of a new resource."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **revival** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **revival** of a new resource."
            * "The study examines how a person's **revival** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **revival** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **revival** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Resurgence, restoration, renewal, renaissance, comeback.

**Opposite words**: Decline, collapse, deterioration, demise, fall.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *re-* (again) and *vivere* (to live).



.. _importantly:

================================================================================
Importantly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪmˈpɔːrtəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a significant way; with great consequence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**importantly**" is to be **in a significant way**, or to emphasize the importance of a statement.

**What it really means**: "**Importantly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a significant way. It suggests that a new thing is a very important one. For example, a new thing is, **importantly**, a good one.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a significant way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**importantly**, it should be noted," "**importantly**, the new law," "**importantly**, we need to address."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "**Importantly**, we need to address the new problem, so we need to fix it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that are **importantly** caused by a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that are **importantly** caused by a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that are **importantly** caused by a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **importantly** decision can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that are **importantly** caused by a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that are **importantly** caused by a new system."

**Synonyms**: Significantly, crucially, critically, essentially, notably.

**Opposite words**: Unimportantly, insignificantly, negligibly, trivially.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *importare* (to carry in, to matter).



.. _inherit:

================================================================================
Inherit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈhɛrɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To receive (money, property, or a title) as an heir at the death of the previous holder.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**inherit**" is to **receive property, money, or characteristics from a person who has died**, or to get something from a previous generation.

**What it really means**: To "**inherit**" means to receive money, property, or a title as an heir at the death of the previous holder. It is the act of getting something from a dead person. For example, a new person can **inherit** a new house.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of receiving money, property, or a title as an heir at the death of the previous holder.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**inherit** a house," "**inherit** a new job," "**inherit** a new problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **inherit** the new house, so he is very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that we **inherit** from a new generation."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that we **inherit** from a new generation."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that we **inherit** from a new generation."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **inherit** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that we **inherit** from a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that we **inherit** from a new system."

**Synonyms**: Succeed, come into, receive, acquire, get.

**Opposite words**: Disinherit, forfeit, give up, renounce.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *hereditare* (to be an heir).



.. _equation:

================================================================================
Equation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈkweɪʒən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A statement that the values of two mathematical expressions are equal.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**equation**" is a **mathematical statement of equality**, or a situation where multiple factors must be considered together.

**What it really means**: "**Equation**" is a noun that refers to a statement that the values of two mathematical expressions are equal. It suggests that a new thing is being used to solve a new problem. For example, a new problem can be solved with a new **equation**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a statement that the values of two mathematical expressions are equal.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a chemical **equation**," "a mathematical **equation**," "a new **equation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new problem can be solved with a new **equation**, so we need to find it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **equation** of a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **equation** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **equation** of a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **equation** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **equation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **equation** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Formula, calculation, identity, balance, equivalence.

**Opposite words**: Inequality, imbalance.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *aequare* (to make equal).



.. _substantial:

================================================================================
Substantial
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səbˈstænʃəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Of considerable importance, size, or worth.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**substantial**" is to be **of great size, value, or importance**, or to be solid and well-built.

**What it really means**: "**Substantial**" is an adjective used to describe something that is of considerable importance, size, or worth. It suggests that a new thing is a very big one. For example, a new house can be very **substantial**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is of considerable importance, size, or worth.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **substantial** amount," "a **substantial** change," "a **substantial** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new house is very **substantial**, so it is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **substantial** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **substantial** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **substantial** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **substantial** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **substantial** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **substantial** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Significant, considerable, large, major, solid.

**Opposite words**: Insignificant, trivial, small, minor, negligible.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *substantia* (substance).



.. _socially:

================================================================================
Socially
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsoʊʃəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that relates to society or the organization of it.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**socially**" is to be **in a way that relates to society, groups of people, or human interaction**.

**What it really means**: "**Socially**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that relates to society or the organization of it. It suggests that a new thing is being done with other people. For example, a new person is **socially** active.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that relates to society or the organization of it.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**socially** active," "**socially** responsible," "**socially** acceptable."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is **socially** active, so he has a lot of new friends."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **socially** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **socially** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **socially** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **socially** behavior can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **socially** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **socially** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Publicly, communally, interactively, collectively.

**Opposite words**: Individually, privately, solitarily.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *socius* (ally, companion).



.. _detectable:

================================================================================
Detectable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈtɛktəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Able to be noticed or discovered.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**detectable**" is to be **able to be noticed or discovered**, often through observation or measurement.

**What it really means**: "**Detectabale**" is an adjective used to describe something that is able to be noticed or discovered. It suggests that a new thing can be found. For example, a new problem can be **detectable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is able to be noticed or discovered.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **detectable** change," "a **detectable** signal," "a **detectable** new problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new problem is **detectable**, so we need to address it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **detectable** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **detectable** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **detectable** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **detectable** behavior can affect their social relationships."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **detectable** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **detectable** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Noticeable, observable, perceptible, visible, apparent.

**Opposite words**: Undetectable, imperceptible, unnoticeable, hidden.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *detegere* (to uncover).



.. _reluctance:

================================================================================
Reluctance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈlʌktəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: Unwillingness or hesitation to do something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**reluctance**" is the **state of being unwilling or hesitant to do something**, often due to doubt or fear.

**What it really means**: "**Reluctance**" is a noun that refers to unwillingness or hesitation to do something. It suggests that a new person doesn't want to do a new thing. For example, a new person can have a lot of **reluctance**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to unwillingness or hesitation to do something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a feeling of **reluctance**," "a sense of **reluctance**," "a new **reluctance**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a lot of **reluctance** to do the new job, so he is not a good employee."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **reluctance** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **reluctance** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **reluctance** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **reluctance** to do a new thing can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **reluctance** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **reluctance** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Unwillingness, hesitation, disinclination, aversion, resistance.

**Opposite words**: Willingness, eagerness, readiness, enthusiasm.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *reluctari* (to struggle against).



.. _obtain:

================================================================================
Obtain
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əbˈteɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To get, acquire, or secure (something).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**obtain**" is to **get or acquire something**, often through effort or a specific process.

**What it really means**: To "**obtain**" means to get, acquire, or secure something. It is the act of getting a new thing. For example, a new person can **obtain** a new job.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of getting, acquiring, or securing something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**obtain** a new job," "**obtain** a new visa," "**obtain** a new license."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **obtain** a new job, so he is very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people **obtain** a new job."
            * "The new law is designed to help people **obtain** a new job."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people **obtain** a new job."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **obtain** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help people **obtain** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **obtain** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Acquire, get, receive, gain, secure.

**Opposite words**: Lose, forfeit, give up, relinquish.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *obtinere* (to hold, to hold to).



.. _conservation:

================================================================================
Conservation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌkɒnsərˈveɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of conserving something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**conservation**" is the **preservation, protection, or restoration of the natural environment and wildlife**, or of something of value.

**What it really means**: "**Conservation**" is a noun that refers to the action of conserving something. It suggests that a new thing is being protected. For example, a new forest can have a new **conservation**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of conserving something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "wildlife **conservation**," "energy **conservation**," "natural **conservation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new forest has a new **conservation**, so it is a very beautiful one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **conservation** of a new resource."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **conservation** of a new resource."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **conservation** of a new resource."
            * "The study examines how a person's **conservation** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **conservation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **conservation** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Preservation, protection, safeguarding, saving, upkeep.

**Opposite words**: Destruction, waste, neglect, ruin.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *conservare* (to keep, to preserve).



.. _weak:

================================================================================
Weak
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/wiːk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Lacking the power to perform a physically demanding task; having little strength or energy.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**weak**" is to be **lacking strength, power, or firmness**, either physically or in terms of argument or resolve.

**What it really means**: "**Weak**" is an adjective used to describe something that is lacking the power to perform a physically demanding task. It suggests that a new person is not strong. For example, a new person can be very **weak**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is lacking the power to perform a physically demanding task.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **weak** person," "a **weak** argument," "a **weak** point."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **weak** person, so he can't lift a new box."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **weak** points in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **weak** points in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **weak** points in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **weak** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **weak** points in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **weak** points in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Feeble, frail, fragile, infirm, powerless.

**Opposite words**: Strong, powerful, robust, vigorous, sturdy.

**Where it comes from**: From Old Norse *veikr* (weak).



.. _variable:

================================================================================
Variable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvɛəriəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) An element, feature, or factor that is liable to vary or change; (Adjective) Not consistent or having a fixed pattern.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **factor that can change or be changed**. The core meaning of the **adjective** is to be **likely to change** or be inconsistent.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**variable**" refers to an element, feature, or factor that is liable to vary or change. As an **adjective**, "**variable**" means not consistent or having a fixed pattern. For example, a new experiment can have a new **variable**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to an element, feature, or factor that is liable to vary or change, and the adjective to describe something that is not consistent or having a fixed pattern.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a dependent **variable**," "a control **variable**," "a new **variable**."
        * **(Adjective)** "a **variable** temperature," "a **variable** speed."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new experiment has a new **variable**, so we need to control it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **variable** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **variable** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **variable** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **variable** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **variable** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **variable** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Factor, element, component, unknown; (Adjective) Changeable, fluctuating, inconsistent, unstable.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Constant, invariable; (Adjective) Constant, stable, fixed, uniform.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *variabilis* (changeable).



.. _argue:

================================================================================
Argue
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɑːrɡjuː/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To give reasons or cite evidence in support of an idea, action, or theory, typically with the aim of persuading others to share one's view.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**argue**" is to **present reasons for or against an idea or action**, or to engage in a verbal disagreement.

**What it really means**: To "**argue**" means to give reasons or cite evidence in support of an idea, action, or theory, typically with the aim of persuading others to share one's view. It is the act of trying to convince someone. For example, a new person can **argue** for a new idea.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of giving reasons or citing evidence in support of an idea, action, or theory.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**argue** for a new idea," "**argue** against a new law," "**argue** with a new person."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **argue** for the new idea, so he is very passionate about it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **argue** against it."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **argue** against it."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **argue** against it."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **argue** for a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **argue** against a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **argue** for a new idea."

**Synonyms**: Debate, contend, assert, reason, dispute.

**Opposite words**: Agree, concur, concede, assent.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *arguere* (to make clear, to prove).



.. _appearance:

================================================================================
Appearance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈpɪərəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The way that someone or something looks.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**appearance**" is the **way something or someone looks**, or the act of coming into view.

**What it really means**: "**Appearance**" is a noun that refers to the way that someone or something looks. It suggests that a new thing looks a certain way. For example, a new person has a new **appearance**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the way that someone or something looks.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a good **appearance**," "a bad **appearance**," "a new **appearance**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a good **appearance**, so he is a very handsome person."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **appearance** of a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **appearance** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **appearance** of a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **appearance** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **appearance** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **appearance** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Look, look, impression, semblance, facade.

**Opposite words**: Reality, substance, essence, being.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *apparere* (to appear).



.. _description:

================================================================================
Description
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈskrɪpʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A spoken or written account of a person, object, or event.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**description**" is a **detailed account or portrayal of something** using words.

**What it really means**: "**Description**" is a noun that refers to a spoken or written account of a person, object, or event. It suggests that a new thing is being described. For example, a new book can have a new **description**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a spoken or written account of a person, object, or event.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a detailed **description**," "a new **description**," "a brief **description**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new book has a new **description**, so I can't wait to read it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **description** of a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **description** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **description** of a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **description** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **description** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **description** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Account, portrayal, depiction, explanation, narrative.

**Opposite words**: Silence, blank, nothingness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *describere* (to write down).



.. _contain:

================================================================================
Contain
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈteɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To have or hold (something) within.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**contain**" is to **have or hold something inside**, or to keep something within limits.

**What it really means**: To "**contain**" means to have or hold something within. It is the act of holding something. For example, a new box can **contain** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of having or holding something within.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**contain** a new thing," "**contain** a new problem," "**contain** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new box can **contain** a new thing, so it is a very useful one."
            * "The new policy is designed to **contain** the new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to **contain** the new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **contain** the new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **contain** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **contain** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **contain** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Hold, include, comprise, encompass, restrain.

**Opposite words**: Release, exclude, omit, let out.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *continere* (to hold together).



.. _respectable:

================================================================================
Respectable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈspɛktəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Regarded by society as being good, proper, or correct.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**respectable**" is to be **considered good, proper, or worthy of respect** by society.

**What it really means**: "**Respectable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is regarded by society as being good, proper, or correct. It suggests that a new person is a good one. For example, a new person is a very **respectable** one.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is regarded by society as being good, proper, or correct.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **respectable** person," "a **respectable** job," "a **respectable** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **respectable** person, so I like him very much."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **respectable** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **respectable** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **respectable** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **respectable** behavior can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **respectable** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **respectable** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Honorable, decent, proper, worthy, credible.

**Opposite words**: Disreputable, dishonorable, improper, shameful.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *respectare* (to look back at, to regard).



.. _achievement:

================================================================================
Achievement
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈtʃiːvmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A thing done successfully with effort, skill, or courage.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**achievement**" is something **that is accomplished successfully**, often through hard work, skill, or courage.

**What it really means**: "**Achievement**" is a noun that refers to a thing done successfully with effort, skill, or courage. It suggests that a new person has done a new thing. For example, a new person's **achievement** is a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a thing done successfully with effort, skill, or courage.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a great **achievement**," "a new **achievement**," "a sense of **achievement**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "His new **achievement** is to get a new job, so he is very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **achievement** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **achievement** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **achievement** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **achievement** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **achievement** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **achievement** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Accomplishment, feat, success, triumph, milestone.

**Opposite words**: Failure, defeat, setback, non-achievement.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *achever* (to bring to a head, to finish).



.. _lecture:

================================================================================
Lecture
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈlɛktʃər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) An educational talk to an audience, especially one of students in a university; (Verb) To deliver a lecture.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is an **educational talk** given to an audience. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **give such a talk**, often in a critical or admonishing way.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**lecture**" refers to an educational talk to an audience. As a **verb**, to "**lecture**" means to deliver a lecture. For example, a new professor can give a new **lecture**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to an educational talk to an audience, and the verb to refer to the act of delivering a lecture.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **lecture**," "a university **lecture**," "a new **lecture** hall."
        * **(Verb)** "**lecture** a new class," "**lecture** a new group."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new professor is going to give a new **lecture**, so I can't wait to learn."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **lecture** of a new professor."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **lecture** of a new professor."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **lecture** of a new professor."
            * "The study examines how a person's **lecture** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **lecture** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **lecture** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Talk, speech, discourse, sermon; (Verb) Talk, speak, address, admonish.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Conversation, discussion; (Verb) Listen, be silent.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *lectura* (reading).



.. _reveal:

================================================================================
Reveal
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈviːl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To make (something) known to others.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**reveal**" is to **make something that was previously hidden or unknown become visible or known**.

**What it really means**: To "**reveal**" means to make something known to others. It is the act of showing a new thing. For example, a new person can **reveal** a new secret.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of making something known to others.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**reveal** a new secret," "**reveal** a new problem," "**reveal** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **reveal** the new secret, so I am very excited."
            * "The new policy is designed to **reveal** the new problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to **reveal** the new problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **reveal** the new problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **reveal** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **reveal** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **reveal** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Disclose, expose, uncover, divulge, show.

**Opposite words**: Conceal, hide, cover, obscure, secret.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *revelare* (to pull back the veil).



.. _instruction:

================================================================================
Instruction
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈstrʌkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A detailed information telling how something should be done or operated.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**instruction**" is a **direction or command for how to do something**, or the act of teaching.

**What it really means**: "**Instruction**" is a noun that refers to a detailed information telling how something should be done or operated. It suggests that a new person is being taught. For example, a new person can be given a new **instruction**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a detailed information telling how something should be done or operated.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a clear **instruction**," "a new **instruction**," "a set of **instructions**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need a new **instruction** for the new machine, so I can use it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **instruction** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **instruction** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **instruction** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **instruction** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **instruction** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to give people a new **instruction**."

**Synonyms**: Direction, order, command, guidance, teaching.

**Opposite words**: Misdirection, confusion, ambiguity, disorder.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *instruere* (to build, to teach).



.. _leave:

================================================================================
Leave
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/liːv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To go away from; (Noun) Time off from work or duty.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **verb** is to **depart from a place or a person**. The core meaning of the **noun** is **permission to be absent** from work or duty.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**leave**" means to go away from. As a **noun**, "**leave**" refers to time off from work or duty. For example, a new person can **leave** a new place.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of going away from, and the noun to refer to time off from work or duty.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**leave** a place," "**leave** a job," "**leave** a new idea."
        * **(Noun)** "sick **leave**," "vacation **leave**," "a new **leave**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to **leave** the new place, so I need to say goodbye."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **leave** a new job."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **leave** a new job."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **leave** a new job."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **leave** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **leave** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **leave** a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Depart, exit, abandon, quit; (Noun) Absence, vacation, furlough, time off.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Arrive, stay, remain, come; (Noun) Presence, attendance.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *laefan* (to allow to remain).



.. _innovation:

================================================================================
Innovation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪnəˈveɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action or process of innovating.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**innovation**" is the **introduction of something new**, such as a new idea, method, or device.

**What it really means**: "**Innovation**" is a noun that refers to the action or process of innovating. It suggests that a new thing is being created. For example, a new company can have a lot of **innovation**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action or process of innovating.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "technological **innovation**," "product **innovation**," "a new **innovation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company has a lot of **innovation**, so it is a very interesting one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **innovation** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **innovation** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **innovation** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **innovation** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **innovation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **innovation** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Novelty, change, originality, creativity, new idea.

**Opposite words**: Stagnation, tradition, imitation, conformity.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *innovare* (to renew).



.. _process:

================================================================================
Process
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈprɑːsɛs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A series of actions or steps taken in order to achieve a particular end; (Verb) To perform a series of mechanical or chemical operations on (something) in order to change or preserve it.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of the **noun** is a **series of actions or steps leading to a result**. The core meaning of the **verb** is to **perform a set of actions** on something to change or handle it.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**process**" refers to a series of actions or steps taken in order to achieve a particular end. As a **verb**, to "**process**" means to perform a series of mechanical or chemical operations on something. For example, a new thing can have a new **process**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a series of actions or steps taken in order to achieve a particular end, and the verb to refer to the act of performing a series of mechanical or chemical operations on something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a long **process**," "a new **process**," "the legal **process**."
        * **(Verb)** "**process** data," "**process** an order," "**process** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing has a new **process**, so it is a very interesting one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **process** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **process** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **process** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **process** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **process** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **process** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Procedure, method, system, operation, series; (Verb) Handle, manage, treat, prepare.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Stagnation, inaction; (Verb) Neglect, ignore, halt.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *procedere* (to go forward).



.. _reverse:

================================================================================
Reverse
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈvɜːrs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*, *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To move backward; (Noun) A change to an opposite direction, order, or condition; (Adjective) Opposite or contrary to what is usual or expected.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning is to **change to the opposite direction, position, or order**, whether in motion, sequence, or a situation.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**reverse**" means to move backward. As a **noun**, "**reverse**" refers to a change to an opposite direction, order, or condition. As an **adjective**, "**reverse**" means opposite or contrary to what is usual or expected. For example, a new car can go in **reverse**.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of moving backward, the noun to refer to a change to an opposite direction, and the adjective to describe something that is opposite or contrary to what is usual or expected.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**reverse** a car," "**reverse** a trend," "**reverse** a new law."
        * **(Noun)** "in **reverse**," "a **reverse** trend."
        * **(Adjective)** "a **reverse** order," "a **reverse** gear."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new car can go in **reverse**, so it is a very useful one."
            * "The new policy is designed to **reverse** the new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to **reverse** the new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **reverse** the new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **reverse** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **reverse** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **reverse** a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Invert, turn around, undo, go backward; (Noun) Opposite, inverse, contrary; (Adjective) Opposite, backward, inverted.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Forward, advance, proceed; (Noun) Forward, advance; (Adjective) Forward, direct, usual.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *revertere* (to turn back).



.. _outweigh:

================================================================================
Outweigh
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/aʊtˈweɪ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To be heavier or more significant than.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**outweigh**" is to **be more important, significant, or powerful than something else**.

**What it really means**: To "**outweigh**" means to be heavier or more significant than. It is the act of being more important. For example, a new thing can **outweigh** a new problem.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of being heavier or more significant than.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**outweigh** the benefits," "**outweigh** the risks," "**outweigh** the new problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is going to **outweigh** the new problem, so we don't need to worry about it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **outweigh** the benefits."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **outweigh** the benefits."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **outweigh** the benefits."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **outweigh** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **outweigh** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **outweigh** the benefits."

**Synonyms**: Surpass, exceed, override, eclipse, be more important than.

**Opposite words**: Be outweighed by, fall short, be less than.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *utweigan* (to weigh out).



.. _temptation:

================================================================================
Temptation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/tɛmpˈteɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The desire to do something, especially something wrong or unwise.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**temptation**" is a **strong desire to do something that is forbidden, wrong, or unwise**.

**What it really means**: "**Temptation**" is a noun that refers to the desire to do something, especially something wrong or unwise. It suggests that a new person has a strong desire to do a new thing. For example, a new person can have a new **temptation**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the desire to do something, especially something wrong or unwise.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "resist **temptation**," "a strong **temptation**," "a new **temptation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a strong **temptation** to eat the new cake, so I need to resist it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **temptation** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **temptation** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **temptation** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **temptation** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **temptation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **temptation** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Allure, enticement, pull, lure, desire.

**Opposite words**: Repulsion, discouragement, deterrent, resistance.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *temptare* (to test, to try).


.. _concern:

================================================================================
Concern
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈsɜːrn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A matter of interest or importance to someone; (Verb) To relate to or be about.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**concern**" is a **matter of worry or importance to someone**, or the act of a matter being relevant to a person or situation.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**concern**" refers to a matter of interest or importance. As a **verb**, to "**concern**" means to relate to or be about. For example, a new law can be a big **concern**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a matter of interest or importance, and the verb to refer to the act of relating to or being about something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a big **concern**," "a new **concern**," "a matter of **concern**."
        * **(Verb)** "**concern** a new thing," "a new thing **concerns** me."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new law is a big **concern** for many people, so we need to address it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **concern** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **concern** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **concern** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **concern** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **concern** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **concern** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Worry, anxiety, issue, matter, interest; (Verb) Affect, involve, relate to, be about.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Indifference, unconcern; (Verb) Disregard, ignore.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *concerner* (to concern, to regard).



.. _decisive:

================================================================================
Decisive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈsaɪsɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Settling an issue; producing a definite result.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**decisive**" is to be **firm, conclusive, and able to make decisions quickly** and with authority.

**What it really means**: "**Decisive**" is an adjective used to describe something that is settling an issue; producing a definite result. It suggests that a new person is very good at making decisions. For example, a new person can be very **decisive**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is settling an issue; producing a definite result.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **decisive** person," "a **decisive** moment," "a **decisive** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **decisive** person, so he is a very good leader."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **decisive** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be a **decisive** one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be a **decisive** one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **decisive** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to be **decisive** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **decisive** one for a new system."

**Synonyms**: Conclusive, resolute, firm, determined, influential.

**Opposite words**: Indecisive, hesitant, wavering, inconclusive, weak.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *decidere* (to cut off, to determine).



.. _avoidance:

================================================================================
Avoidance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈvɔɪdəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of keeping away from or not doing something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**avoidance**" is the **act of staying away from a person, place, or situation**, or the act of deliberately not doing something.

**What it really means**: "**Avoidance**" is a noun that refers to the action of keeping away from or not doing something. It suggests that a new person is not doing a new thing. For example, a new person is doing a lot of **avoidance**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of keeping away from or not doing something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a lot of **avoidance**," "tax **avoidance**," "a new **avoidance**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is doing a lot of **avoidance** of the new problem, so we need to address it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **avoidance** of a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **avoidance** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **avoidance** of a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **avoidance** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **avoidance** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **avoidance** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Evasion, circumvention, elusion, preclusion.

**Opposite words**: Confrontation, engagement, embrace, pursuit.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *esvuidier* (to empty out).



.. _enhance:

================================================================================
Enhance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈhæns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To intensify, increase, or further improve the quality, value, or extent of.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**enhance**" is to **improve the quality, value, or attractiveness of something**, or to make it better.

**What it really means**: To "**enhance**" means to intensify, increase, or further improve the quality, value, or extent of. It is the act of making a new thing better. For example, a new policy can **enhance** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of intensifying, increasing, or further improving the quality, value, or extent of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**enhance** a new thing," "**enhance** a new policy," "**enhance** a new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new policy is designed to **enhance** the new thing, so it is a very good one."
            * "The new law is designed to **enhance** the new thing, so it is a very good one."
            * "The new technology is designed to **enhance** the new thing, so it is a very good one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **enhance** the new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **enhance** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **enhance** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **enhance** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Improve, boost, elevate, intensify, upgrade.

**Opposite words**: Diminish, decrease, weaken, worsen, degrade.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *enhaucer* (to raise).



.. _diverse:

================================================================================
Diverse
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/daɪˈvɜːrs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Showing a great deal of variety; very different.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**diverse**" is to be **composed of many different kinds or elements**, or to be varied.

**What it really means**: "**Diverse**" is an adjective used to describe something that is showing a great deal of variety; very different. It suggests that a new group has many different people. For example, a new group can be very **diverse**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is showing a great deal of variety; very different.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **diverse** group," "a **diverse** population," "a **diverse** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new group is very **diverse**, so it has a lot of different people."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **diverse** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **diverse** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **diverse** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **diverse** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **diverse** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **diverse** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Varied, assorted, mixed, manifold, various.

**Opposite words**: Homogeneous, uniform, similar, same.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *diversus* (turned in different directions).



.. _subtly:

================================================================================
Subtly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsʌtli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a delicate or understated way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**subtly**" is to be **in a way that is not obvious or easily noticed**, often in a clever or delicate manner.

**What it really means**: "**Subtly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a delicate or understated way. It suggests that a new thing is being done without being noticed. For example, a new person can **subtly** change a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a delicate or understated way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**subtly** change," "**subtly** suggest," "**subtly** hint."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **subtly** change the new thing, so nobody will notice it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that are **subtly** caused by a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that are **subtly** caused by a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that are **subtly** caused by a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **subtly** behavior can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that are **subtly** caused by a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that are **subtly** caused by a new system."

**Synonyms**: Imperceptibly, delicately, indirectly, gently, quietly.

**Opposite words**: Obviously, clearly, overtly, loudly, bluntly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *subtilis* (fine, thin, delicate).



.. _reluctant:

================================================================================
Reluctant
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈlʌktənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Unwilling and hesitant; disinclined.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**reluctant**" is to be **unwilling or hesitant to do something**, often due to doubt or fear.

**What it really means**: "**Reluctant**" is an adjective used to describe something that is unwilling and hesitant; disinclined. It suggests that a new person doesn't want to do a new thing. For example, a new person can be very **reluctant**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is unwilling and hesitant; disinclined.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **reluctant** person," "a **reluctant** new idea," "a **reluctant** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **reluctant** person, so he doesn't want to do the new job."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **reluctant** people in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **reluctant** people in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **reluctant** people in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **reluctant** behavior can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **reluctant** people in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **reluctant** people in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Unwilling, hesitant, disinclined, averse, loath.

**Opposite words**: Willing, eager, ready, keen, enthusiastic.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *reluctari* (to struggle against).



.. _practical:

================================================================================
Practical
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpræktɪkəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Of or concerned with the actual doing or use of something rather than with theory and ideas.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**practical**" is to be **concerned with action and results rather than theory**, or to be useful and sensible.

**What it really means**: "**Practical**" is an adjective used to describe something that is of or concerned with the actual doing or use of something rather than with theory and ideas. It suggests that a new thing is very useful. For example, a new idea can be very **practical**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is of or concerned with the actual doing or use of something rather than with theory and ideas.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **practical** idea," "a **practical** solution," "a **practical** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new idea is very **practical**, so it is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **practical** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be a **practical** one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be a **practical** one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **practical** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to be **practical** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **practical** one for a new system."

**Synonyms**: Functional, sensible, effective, realistic, useful.

**Opposite words**: Impractical, theoretical, unrealistic, useless, unworkable.

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *praktikos* (fit for action).



.. _demanding:

================================================================================
Demanding
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈmændɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of a task or person) requiring a lot of effort; difficult.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**demanding**" is to be **requiring a great deal of effort, skill, or attention**, often in a challenging or difficult way.

**What it really means**: "**Demanding**" is an adjective used to describe something that is (of a task or person) requiring a lot of effort; difficult. It suggests that a new job is very hard. For example, a new job can be very **demanding**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is (of a task or person) requiring a lot of effort; difficult.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **demanding** job," "a **demanding** boss," "a **demanding** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new job is very **demanding**, so I need to work very hard."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **demanding** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **demanding** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **demanding** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **demanding** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **demanding** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **demanding** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Difficult, challenging, arduous, taxing, tough.

**Opposite words**: Easy, simple, undemanding, effortless, light.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *demander* (to demand, to ask).



.. _alteration:

================================================================================
Alteration
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɔːltəˈreɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of altering something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**alteration**" is a **change or modification made to something**, or the process of changing it.

**What it really means**: "**Alteration**" is a noun that refers to the action of altering something. It suggests that a new thing is being changed. For example, a new plan can have a new **alteration**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of altering something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a minor **alteration**," "a major **alteration**," "a new **alteration**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new plan has a new **alteration**, so we need to address it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **alteration** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **alteration** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **alteration** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **alteration** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **alteration** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **alteration** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Change, modification, adjustment, revision, amendment.

**Opposite words**: Preservation, conservation, maintenance, stability.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *alterare* (to change).



.. _install:

================================================================================
Install
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈstɔːl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To place or fix (equipment or machinery) in position and get it ready for use.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**install**" is to **put equipment, software, or a person in a place** and prepare it for use.

**What it really means**: To "**install**" means to place or fix (equipment or machinery) in position and get it ready for use. It is the act of putting a new thing in a new place. For example, a new person can **install** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of placing or fixing (equipment or machinery) in position and getting it ready for use.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**install** a new thing," "**install** a new software," "**install** a new system."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **install** the new thing, so I need to read the instructions."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people **install** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to help people **install** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people **install** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **install** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help people **install** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **install** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Fit, set up, place, fix, establish.

**Opposite words**: Uninstall, remove, dismantle, detach, take out.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *installer* (to put in a place).



.. _resist:

================================================================================
Resist
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈzɪst/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To withstand the action or effect of.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**resist**" is to **withstand, oppose, or refuse to comply with something**, or to fight against it.

**What it really means**: To "**resist**" means to withstand the action or effect of. It is the act of not doing a new thing. For example, a new person can **resist** a new temptation.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of withstanding the action or effect of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**resist** a new temptation," "**resist** a new law," "**resist** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **resist** the new temptation, so he is a very strong person."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **resist** it."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **resist** it."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **resist** it."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **resist** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **resist** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **resist** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Oppose, withstand, fight, defy, stand against.

**Opposite words**: Surrender, yield, give in, submit, comply.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *resistere* (to stand back).



.. _replacement:

================================================================================
Replacement
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈpleɪsmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action or process of replacing someone or something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**replacement**" is a **person or thing that takes the place of another**, or the act of doing so.

**What it really means**: "**Replacement**" is a noun that refers to the action or process of replacing someone or something. It suggests that a new thing is being used to replace a new thing. For example, a new person can be a **replacement** for a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action or process of replacing someone or something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **replacement**," "a temporary **replacement**," "a permanent **replacement**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new person is a new **replacement** for the old one, so he is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **replacement** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **replacement** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **replacement** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **replacement** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **replacement** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **replacement** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Substitute, substitute, successor, proxy, stand-in.

**Opposite words**: Original, predecessor.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *remplacer* (to replace).



.. _scarcely:

================================================================================
Scarcely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈskɛərsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Almost not at all; barely.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**scarcely**" is to be **barely, or almost not at all**, often suggesting a lack of something or an action that is difficult.

**What it really means**: "**Scarcely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is almost not at all; barely. It suggests that a new thing is not happening. For example, a new thing is **scarcely** happening.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is almost not at all; barely.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**scarcely** ever," "**scarcely** any," "**scarcely** a new problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is **scarcely** ever home, so I don't see him much."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **scarcely** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **scarcely** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **scarcely** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **scarcely** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **scarcely** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **scarcely** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Barely, hardly, almost not, infrequently, rarely.

**Opposite words**: Frequently, often, regularly, abundantly, easily.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *escars* (scarce).



.. _peculiarly:

================================================================================
Peculiarly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pɪˈkjuːliərli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In an unusual or strange way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**peculiarly**" is to be **in a strange, unusual, or distinctive way**, or in a way that is unique to a person or thing.

**What it really means**: "**Peculiarly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in an unusual or strange way. It suggests that a new thing is being done in a new way. For example, a new person is **peculiarly** happy.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in an unusual or strange way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**peculiarly** happy," "**peculiarly** quiet," "**peculiarly** a new problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is **peculiarly** happy, so I don't know why."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that are **peculiarly** caused by a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that are **peculiarly** caused by a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that are **peculiarly** caused by a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **peculiarly** behavior can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that are **peculiarly** caused by a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that are **peculiarly** caused by a new system."

**Synonyms**: Unusually, strangely, oddly, uniquely, distinctively.

**Opposite words**: Normally, commonly, typically, ordinarily, generally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *peculiaris* (one's own).



.. _deficiency:

================================================================================
Deficiency
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈfɪʃənsi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A lack or shortage of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**deficiency**" is a **lack of something necessary**, or a shortcoming.

**What it really means**: "**Deficiency**" is a noun that refers to a lack or shortage of something. It suggests that a new thing is missing something. For example, a new diet can have a new **deficiency**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a lack or shortage of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a vitamin **deficiency**," "a new **deficiency**," "a lack of **deficiency**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new diet has a new **deficiency**, so it is not a good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **deficiency** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **deficiency** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **deficiency** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deficiency** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **deficiency** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **deficiency** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Shortage, lack, deficit, inadequacy, scarcity.

**Opposite words**: Sufficiency, abundance, surplus, adequacy.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deficere* (to fail, to be wanting).



.. _sensitive:

================================================================================
Sensitive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɛnsətɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Easily affected by something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**sensitive**" is to be **easily affected, influenced, or hurt**, either emotionally or physically.

**What it really means**: "**Sensitive**" is an adjective used to describe something that is easily affected by something. It suggests that a new person is easily hurt. For example, a new person can be very **sensitive**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is easily affected by something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **sensitive** person," "a **sensitive** topic," "a **sensitive** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **sensitive** person, so I need to be careful with him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **sensitive** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **sensitive** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **sensitive** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **sensitive** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **sensitive** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **sensitive** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Responsive, emotional, delicate, susceptible, touchy.

**Opposite words**: Insensitive, tough, unfeeling, callous, apathetic.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sentire* (to feel).



.. _fluently:

================================================================================
Fluently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfluːəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is able to express oneself easily and articulately.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**fluently**" is to be **in a smooth, easy, and effortless manner**, especially when speaking a language.

**What it really means**: "**Fluently**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is able to express oneself easily and articulately. It suggests that a new person can speak a new language very well. For example, a new person can speak **fluently**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is able to express oneself easily and articulately.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "speak **fluently**," "write **fluently**," "read **fluently**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He can speak English **fluently**, so he is a very good person."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who can speak **fluently**."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who can speak **fluently**."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who can speak **fluently**."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to speak **fluently** can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who can speak **fluently**."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people speak **fluently**."

**Synonyms**: Effortlessly, smoothly, articulately, eloquently, easily.

**Opposite words**: Haltingly, hesitantly, awkwardly, stumblingly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *fluens* (flowing).



.. _defeat:

================================================================================
Defeat
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈfiːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To win a victory over (someone) in a battle or other contest; (Noun) An instance of defeating or being defeated.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**defeat**" is to **win a victory over an opponent**, or to cause someone to lose. As a noun, it is the state of being beaten.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**defeat**" means to win a victory over someone in a battle or other contest. As a **noun**, "**defeat**" refers to an instance of defeating or being defeated. For example, a new team can **defeat** a new team.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of winning a victory over someone in a battle or other contest, and the noun to refer to an instance of defeating or being defeated.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**defeat** a new team," "**defeat** a new enemy," "**defeat** a new problem."
        * **(Noun)** "a bitter **defeat**," "a new **defeat**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new team is going to **defeat** the old one, so I am very excited."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **defeat** of a new team."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **defeat** of a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **defeat** of a new team."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **defeat** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **defeat** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **defeat** a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Beat, overcome, conquer, vanquish; (Noun) Loss, failure, conquest, downfall.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Win, succeed, triumph, surrender; (Noun) Victory, success, triumph.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *desfaire* (to undo).



.. _hospitable:

================================================================================
Hospitable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/hɒˈspɪtəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Friendly and welcoming to visitors or guests.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**hospitable**" is to be **friendly, welcoming, and generous to guests or visitors**.

**What it really means**: "**Hospitable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is friendly and welcoming to visitors or guests. It suggests that a new place is very friendly. For example, a new place can be very **hospitable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is friendly and welcoming to visitors or guests.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **hospitable** person," "a **hospitable** place," "a **hospitable** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **hospitable** person, so I like him very much."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **hospitable** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **hospitable** people in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **hospitable** people in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **hospitable** behavior can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **hospitable** people in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **hospitable** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Welcoming, friendly, generous, gracious, cordial.

**Opposite words**: Inhospitable, unfriendly, hostile, cold, unwelcoming.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *hospes* (guest).



.. _destroy:

================================================================================
Destroy
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstrɔɪ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To put an end to the existence of (something) by damaging or attacking it.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**destroy**" is to **ruin or demolish something completely**, or to put an end to its existence.

**What it really means**: To "**destroy**" means to put an end to the existence of (something) by damaging or attacking it. It is the act of ruining a new thing. For example, a new person can **destroy** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of putting an end to the existence of (something) by damaging or attacking it.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**destroy** a new thing," "**destroy** a new plan," "**destroy** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new person is going to **destroy** the new thing, so I am very sad."
            * "The new policy is designed to **destroy** the new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to **destroy** the new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **destroy** the new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **destroy** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **destroy** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **destroy** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Ruin, demolish, annihilate, obliterate, devastate.

**Opposite words**: Create, build, construct, establish, preserve.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *destruere* (to pull down).



.. _challenging:

================================================================================
Challenging
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtʃælɪndʒɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Testing one's abilities; demanding.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**challenging**" is to be **difficult in an interesting or stimulating way**, requiring a person to use their abilities and skills.

**What it really means**: "**Challenging**" is an adjective used to describe something that is testing one's abilities; demanding. It suggests that a new job is very hard. For example, a new job can be very **challenging**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is testing one's abilities; demanding.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **challenging** job," "a **challenging** problem," "a **challenging** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new job is very **challenging**, so I need to work very hard."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **challenging** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **challenging** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **challenging** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **challenging** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **challenging** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **challenging** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Difficult, demanding, tough, stimulating, arduous.

**Opposite words**: Easy, simple, undemanding, straightforward.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *chalengier* (to accuse, to demand).



.. _disapproval:

================================================================================
Disapproval
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdɪsəˈpruːvəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The expression of an unfavorable opinion.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**disapproval**" is the **expression of a negative opinion or judgment**, or the act of not approving of something.

**What it really means**: "**Disapproval**" is a noun that refers to the expression of an unfavorable opinion. It suggests that a new person doesn't like a new thing. For example, a new person can show a new **disapproval**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the expression of an unfavorable opinion.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a look of **disapproval**," "a new **disapproval**," "a sense of **disapproval**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He showed a lot of **disapproval** for the new idea, so I don't think it is a good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **disapproval** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **disapproval** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **disapproval** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **disapproval** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **disapproval** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **disapproval** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Condemnation, criticism, objection, censure, dislike.

**Opposite words**: Approval, praise, support, endorsement, agreement.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *dis-* (not) and *approbare* (to approve).



.. _thin:

================================================================================
Thin
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/θɪn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of an object or a person) having a small distance between opposite sides or surfaces.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**thin**" is to be **having little width or thickness**, or to be slender and not fat.

**What it really means**: "**Thin**" is an adjective used to describe something that is having a small distance between opposite sides or surfaces. It suggests that a new thing is not thick. For example, a new book can be very **thin**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is having a small distance between opposite sides or surfaces.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **thin** person," "a **thin** book," "a **thin** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new book is very **thin**, so I can read it very fast."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **thin** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **thin** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **thin** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **thin** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **thin** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **thin** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Slim, slender, lean, skinny, fine.

**Opposite words**: Thick, fat, wide, broad, dense.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *thynne* (thin).



.. _devote:

================================================================================
Devote
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈvoʊt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To give all or a large part of one's time or resources to (a person, activity, or cause).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**devote**" is to **give all of one's time or effort to a person or activity**, or to dedicate oneself to it.

**What it really means**: To "**devote**" means to give all or a large part of one's time or resources to (a person, activity, or cause). It is the act of giving all of one's time to a new thing. For example, a new person can **devote** a lot of time to a new project.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of giving all or a large part of one's time or resources to (a person, activity, or cause).
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**devote** time to a new project," "**devote** oneself to a new idea," "**devote** money to a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to **devote** a lot of time to the new project, so I can finish it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **devote** their time to a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **devote** their time to a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **devote** their time to a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **devote** their time to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **devote** their time to a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **devote** their time to a new system."

**Synonyms**: Dedicate, commit, allocate, consecrate, give.

**Opposite words**: Neglect, ignore, abandon, withdraw, disregard.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *devovere* (to vow, to dedicate).



.. _intentionally:

================================================================================
Intentionally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈtɛnʃənəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: With intention or design; deliberately.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**intentionally**" is to be **with purpose or on purpose**, and not by accident.

**What it really means**: "**Intentionally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done with intention or design; deliberately. It suggests that a new thing is being done on purpose. For example, a new person **intentionally** did a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done with intention or design; deliberately.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**intentionally** do a new thing," "**intentionally** lie," "**intentionally** break a rule."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **intentionally** broke the new rule, so he is a very bad person."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **intentionally** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **intentionally** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **intentionally** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **intentionally** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **intentionally** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the people who **intentionally** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Deliberately, on purpose, purposefully, consciously, knowingly.

**Opposite words**: Accidentally, unintentionally, by chance, inadvertently.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *intendere* (to stretch toward).



.. _distract:

================================================================================
Distract
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈstrækt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To prevent someone from giving full attention to something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**distract**" is to **pull someone's attention away** from what they should be focusing on.

**What it really means**: To "**distract**" means to prevent someone from giving full attention to something. It is the act of making a new person not focus on a new thing. For example, a new person can **distract** a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of preventing someone from giving full attention to something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**distract** a new person," "**distract** from a new thing," "**distract** from a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **distract** me, so I can't finish my work."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **distract** a new person."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **distract** a new person."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **distract** a new person."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **distract** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **distract** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **distract** people from a new problem."

**Synonyms**: Divert, sidetrack, take away, pull away, confuse.

**Opposite words**: Focus, concentrate, attract, engage.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *distrahere* (to pull apart).



.. _foreign:

================================================================================
Foreign
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈfɒrən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Of, from, in, or characteristic of a country or language other than one's own.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**foreign**" is to be **from another country**, or to be unfamiliar and not native to a place.

**What it really means**: "**Foreign**" is an adjective used to describe something that is of, from, in, or characteristic of a country or language other than one's own. It suggests that a new thing is from another country. For example, a new person can be a **foreign** person.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is of, from, in, or characteristic of a country or language other than one's own.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **foreign** country," "a **foreign** person," "a **foreign** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a **foreign** person, so he is from another country."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **foreign** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **foreign** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **foreign** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **foreign** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **foreign** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **foreign** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Alien, unfamiliar, non-native, exotic, imported.

**Opposite words**: Native, domestic, local, homegrown, familiar.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *forain* (external).



.. _dramatically:

================================================================================
Dramatically
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/drəˈmætɪkəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a sudden and striking way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**dramatically**" is to be **in a very noticeable, sudden, or significant way**, often with a lot of effect.

**What it really means**: "**Dramatically**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a sudden and striking way. It suggests that a new thing is being done in a very big way. For example, a new thing can **dramatically** change a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a sudden and striking way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**dramatically** change," "**dramatically** increase," "**dramatically** decrease."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is going to **dramatically** change the new thing, so it is a very big one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **dramatically** change the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **dramatically** change the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **dramatically** change the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **dramatically** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **dramatically** change the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **dramatically** change the new system."

**Synonyms**: Significantly, remarkably, sharply, suddenly, strikingly.

**Opposite words**: Slightly, gently, gradually, subtly, moderately.

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *drama* (deed, action).



.. _consult:

================================================================================
Consult
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈsʌlt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To seek information or advice from (someone with expertise in a particular area).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**consult**" is to **seek information or advice from a person, book, or source**, or to get advice from an expert.

**What it really means**: To "**consult**" means to seek information or advice from (someone with expertise in a particular area). It is the act of asking a new person for help. For example, a new person can **consult** a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of seeking information or advice from (someone with expertise in a particular area).
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**consult** a new person," "**consult** a new book," "**consult** a new expert."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **consult** a new person, so I can get a new idea."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **consult** a new person."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **consult** a new person."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **consult** a new person."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **consult** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **consult** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **consult** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Ask, refer to, confer with, seek advice from, talk to.

**Opposite words**: Ignore, disregard, bypass, avoid.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *consultare* (to take counsel).



.. _attempt:

================================================================================
Attempt
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˈtɛmpt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) An effort to achieve or complete something difficult; (Verb) To make an effort to achieve or complete (something).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**attempt**" is to **make an effort to do something**, even if it is difficult or may fail. As a noun, it is the act of trying.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**attempt**" refers to an effort to achieve or complete something difficult. As a **verb**, to "**attempt**" means to make an effort to achieve or complete something. For example, a new person can make a new **attempt**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to an effort to achieve or complete something difficult, and the verb to refer to the act of making an effort to achieve or complete something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **attempt**," "a failed **attempt**," "a good **attempt**."
        * **(Verb)** "**attempt** a new thing," "**attempt** a new problem," "**attempt** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to make a new **attempt** to solve the new problem, so I can fix it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **attempt** to do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **attempt** to do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **attempt** to do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **attempt** to do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **attempt** to do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **attempt** to do a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Effort, try, endeavor, bid; (Verb) Try, endeavor, strive, tackle.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Success, victory, achievement; (Verb) Succeed, give up.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *atempter* (to try).



.. _coincidentally:

================================================================================
Coincidentally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/koʊˌɪnsɪˈdɛntəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: By chance; as a result of a coincidence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**coincidentally**" is to be **in a way that happens by chance**, or to be a surprising parallel of events.

**What it really means**: "**Coincidentally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done by chance; as a result of a coincidence. It suggests that a new thing is happening at the same time as a new thing. For example, a new thing **coincidentally** happened.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done by chance; as a result of a coincidence.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**coincidentally** happen," "**coincidentally** meet," "**coincidentally** find a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **coincidentally** found the new thing, so he is very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **coincidentally** happen."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **coincidentally** happen."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **coincidentally** happen."
            * "The study examines how a person's **coincidentally** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **coincidentally** happen."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **coincidentally** happen."

**Synonyms**: By chance, accidentally, unexpectedly, serendipitously.

**Opposite words**: Intentionally, deliberately, purposefully, by design.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *co-* (together) and *incidere* (to fall upon).



.. _collect:

================================================================================
Collect
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˈlɛkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To bring or gather together (things or people).

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**collect**" is to **gather things or people together**, or to accumulate something.

**What it really means**: To "**collect**" means to bring or gather together (things or people). It is the act of getting a new thing. For example, a new person can **collect** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of bringing or gathering together (things or people).
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**collect** a new thing," "**collect** a new person," "**collect** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to **collect** the new thing, so I can use it."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people **collect** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to help people **collect** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people **collect** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **collect** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help people **collect** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **collect** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Gather, accumulate, amass, hoard, assemble.

**Opposite words**: Disperse, scatter, distribute, give away, spread.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *colligere* (to gather together).



.. _publicly:

================================================================================
Publicly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpʌblɪkli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is open to or accessible by the public.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**publicly**" is to be **in a way that is open to everyone**, or in front of other people.

**What it really means**: "**Publicly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is open to or accessible by the public. It suggests that a new thing is being done in front of a lot of people. For example, a new person can **publicly** speak.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is open to or accessible by the public.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**publicly** speak," "**publicly** announce," "**publicly** show."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **publicly** announce the new thing, so a lot of people will know about it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **publicly** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **publicly** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **publicly** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **publicly** speak can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **publicly** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **publicly** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Openly, openly, overtly, commonly, candidly.

**Opposite words**: Privately, secretly, confidentially, in private.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *publicus* (of the people).



.. _elaborately:

================================================================================
Elaborately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈlæbərətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a detailed and complicated manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**elaborately**" is to be **in a detailed, complex, or intricate way**, often with careful planning.

**What it really means**: "**Elaborately**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a detailed and complicated manner. It suggests that a new thing is being done with a lot of detail. For example, a new person can **elaborately** explain a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a detailed and complicated manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**elaborately** explain," "**elaborately** design," "**elaborately** decorate."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **elaborately** explain the new thing, so I will understand it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that are **elaborately** caused by a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that are **elaborately** caused by a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that are **elaborately** caused by a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **elaborately** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that are **elaborately** caused by a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that are **elaborately** caused by a new system."

**Synonyms**: Intricately, ornately, meticulously, carefully, in detail.

**Opposite words**: Simply, plainly, concisely, briefly, minimally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *elaborare* (to work out).



.. _suddenly:

================================================================================
Suddenly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsʌdənli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Quickly and unexpectedly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**suddenly**" is to be **in a quick and unexpected manner**, often with no warning.

**What it really means**: "**Suddenly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done quickly and unexpectedly. It suggests that a new thing is happening very fast. For example, a new thing **suddenly** happened.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done quickly and unexpectedly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**suddenly** happen," "**suddenly** change," "**suddenly** stop."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing **suddenly** happened, so I was very surprised."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **suddenly** happen."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **suddenly** happen."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **suddenly** happen."
            * "The study examines how a person's **suddenly** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **suddenly** happen."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **suddenly** happen."

**Synonyms**: Abruptly, unexpectedly, all at once, without warning, rapidly.

**Opposite words**: Gradually, slowly, steadily, predictably.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *sudein* (sudden).



.. _quickly:

================================================================================
Quickly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkwɪkli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: At a fast pace; rapidly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**quickly**" is to be **at a fast speed**, or in a short amount of time.

**What it really means**: "**Quickly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done at a fast pace; rapidly. It suggests that a new thing is being done very fast. For example, a new person can **quickly** do a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done at a fast pace; rapidly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**quickly** do a new thing," "**quickly** run," "**quickly** read."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **quickly** do the new thing, so we don't have to wait."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that are **quickly** changing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that are **quickly** changing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that are **quickly** changing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **quickly** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that are **quickly** changing."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **quickly** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Rapidly, swiftly, fast, promptly, soon.

**Opposite words**: Slowly, leisurely, gradually, deliberately.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *cwic* (alive, lively).



.. _desirable:

================================================================================
Desirable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈzaɪərəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Wished for as being an attractive, useful, or necessary thing.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**desirable**" is to be **wanted or attractive**, often because it is a good or useful thing to have.

**What it really means**: "**Desirable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is wished for as being an attractive, useful, or necessary thing. It suggests that a new thing is very good. For example, a new job can be very **desirable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is wished for as being an attractive, useful, or necessary thing.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **desirable** job," "a **desirable** location," "a **desirable** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new job is very **desirable**, so a lot of people want it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **desirable** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be a **desirable** one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be a **desirable** one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **desirable** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to be **desirable** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **desirable** one for a new system."

**Synonyms**: Attractive, appealing, coveted, sought-after, beneficial.

**Opposite words**: Undesirable, unattractive, unwelcome, worthless, bad.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *desiderare* (to long for).



.. _loyally:

================================================================================
Loyally
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈlɔɪəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a loyal manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**loyally**" is to be **in a faithful, devoted, and supportive manner**, showing allegiance.

**What it really means**: "**Loyally**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a loyal manner. It suggests that a new person is being faithful. For example, a new person can **loyally** follow a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a loyal manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**loyally** follow," "**loyally** support," "**loyally** serve."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **loyally** follow the new person, so he is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **loyally** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **loyally** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **loyally** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **loyally** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **loyally** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **loyally** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Faithfully, devotedly, steadfastly, truly, obediently.

**Opposite words**: Disloyally, treacherously, faithlessly, unfaithfully.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *loial* (legal, faithful).



.. _reluctantly:

================================================================================
Reluctantly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈlʌktəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In an unwilling or hesitant way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**reluctantly**" is to be **in an unwilling or hesitant manner**, often showing a lack of enthusiasm.

**What it really means**: "**Reluctantly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in an unwilling or hesitant way. It suggests that a new person is not enthusiastic about doing a new thing. For example, a new person can **reluctantly** do a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in an unwilling or hesitant way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**reluctantly** agree," "**reluctantly** do a new thing," "**reluctantly** accept."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **reluctantly** agreed to do the new thing, so he is not happy about it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **reluctantly** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **reluctantly** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **reluctantly** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **reluctantly** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **reluctantly** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **reluctantly** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Unwillingly, hesitantly, grudgingly, unenthusiastically.

**Opposite words**: Willingly, eagerly, readily, enthusiastically.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *reluctari* (to struggle against).


.. _substitute:

================================================================================
Substitute
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsʌbstɪtjuːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: A person or thing acting or serving in place of another.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**substitute**" is to **replace or act in the place of another**, or a person or thing that does so.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**substitute**" refers to a person or thing acting or serving in place of another. As a **verb**, to "**substitute**" means to replace or act in the place of another. For example, a new person can be a **substitute** for a new person.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a person or thing acting or serving in place of another, and the verb to refer to the act of replacing or acting in the place of another.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **substitute**," "a temporary **substitute**," "a permanent **substitute**."
        * **(Verb)** "**substitute** a new thing," "**substitute** a new person," "**substitute** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new person is a new **substitute** for the old one, so he is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **substitute** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **substitute** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **substitute** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **substitute** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **substitute** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **substitute** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Replacement, stand-in, backup, proxy, successor; (Verb) Replace, swap, exchange, switch.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Original, permanent thing; (Verb) Retain, keep, maintain.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *substituere* (to put in place of).



.. _conceal:

================================================================================
Conceal
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈsiːl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To keep from sight; to hide.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**conceal**" is to **hide something completely**, or to keep it from being seen or known.

**What it really means**: To "**conceal**" means to keep from sight; to hide. It is the act of hiding a new thing. For example, a new person can **conceal** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of keeping from sight; to hide.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**conceal** a new thing," "**conceal** a new plan," "**conceal** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **conceal** the new thing, so nobody will find it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **conceal** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **conceal** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **conceal** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **conceal** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **conceal** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **conceal** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Hide, cover, disguise, mask, camouflage.

**Opposite words**: Reveal, expose, show, display, uncover.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *concelare* (to hide).



.. _exhausting:

================================================================================
Exhausting
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪɡˈzɔːstɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Making one feel very tired.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**exhausting**" is to be **causing a person to feel extremely tired**, or to use up all of one's energy.

**What it really means**: "**Exhausting**" is an adjective used to describe something that is making one feel very tired. It suggests that a new thing is very tiring. For example, a new job can be very **exhausting**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is making one feel very tired.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **exhausting** job," "an **exhausting** day," "an **exhausting** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new job is very **exhausting**, so I need to rest."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **exhausting** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **exhausting** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **exhausting** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **exhausting** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **exhausting** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **exhausting** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Tiring, draining, demanding, fatiguing, arduous.

**Opposite words**: Relaxing, refreshing, invigorating, energizing.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *exhaurire* (to draw out).



.. _observations:

================================================================================
Observations
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɒbzərˈveɪʃənz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action or process of observing something or someone carefully or in order to gain information.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**observations**" is the **act of watching or noticing something carefully**, or the things that are noticed.

**What it really means**: "**Observations**" is a noun that refers to the action or process of observing something or someone carefully or in order to gain information. It suggests that a new person is looking at a new thing. For example, a new person can make new **observations**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action or process of observing something or someone carefully or in order to gain information.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "make new **observations**," "a lot of **observations**," "a new **observation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I made a lot of **observations** about the new thing, so I know a lot about it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **observations** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **observations** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **observations** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **observations** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **observations** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **observations** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Notes, remarks, findings, perceptions, scrutiny.

**Opposite words**: Ignorance, oversight, disregard.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *observare* (to watch, to notice).



.. _collaboration:

================================================================================
Collaboration
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˌlæbəˈreɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of working with someone to produce or create something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**collaboration**" is the **act of working together with others** to achieve a common goal.

**What it really means**: "**Collaboration**" is a noun that refers to the action of working with someone to produce or create something. It suggests that a new person is working with a new person. For example, a new project can have a new **collaboration**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of working with someone to produce or create something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **collaboration**," "a successful **collaboration**," "a lot of **collaboration**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new project has a new **collaboration**, so we can get it done faster."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **collaboration** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **collaboration** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **collaboration** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **collaboration** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **collaboration** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **collaboration** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Cooperation, teamwork, partnership, joint effort, alliance.

**Opposite words**: Competition, opposition, independence, individualism, rivalry.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *collaborare* (to work with).



.. _accuracy:

================================================================================
Accuracy
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈækjərəsi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The quality or state of being correct or precise.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**accuracy**" is the **quality of being correct or precise**, or the state of being free from errors.

**What it really means**: "**Accuracy**" is a noun that refers to the quality or state of being correct or precise. It suggests that a new thing is very correct. For example, a new thing can have a new **accuracy**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the quality or state of being correct or precise.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a high **accuracy**," "a new **accuracy**," "a lack of **accuracy**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing has a high **accuracy**, so it is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **accuracy** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **accuracy** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **accuracy** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **accuracy** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **accuracy** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **accuracy** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Correctness, precision, exactness, validity, truthfulness.

**Opposite words**: Inaccuracy, error, imprecision, falsehood, mistake.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *accuratus* (careful, exact).



.. _difficulty:

================================================================================
Difficulty
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɪfɪkəlti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state or condition of being difficult.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**difficulty**" is the **state of being hard to do or understand**, or a problem that must be overcome.

**What it really means**: "**Difficulty**" is a noun that refers to the state or condition of being difficult. It suggests that a new thing is very hard. For example, a new thing can have a new **difficulty**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state or condition of being difficult.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a lot of **difficulty**," "a new **difficulty**," "a lack of **difficulty**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am having a lot of **difficulty** with the new thing, so I need help."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **difficulty** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **difficulty** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **difficulty** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **difficulty** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **difficulty** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **difficulty** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Hardship, problem, obstacle, challenge, trouble.

**Opposite words**: Ease, simplicity, facility, effortlessness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *difficilis* (not easy).



.. _deceptive:

================================================================================
Deceptive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈsɛptɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Giving an impression different from the true one; misleading.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**deceptive**" is to be **misleading or giving a false impression**, or to be designed to trick someone.

**What it really means**: "**Deceptive**" is an adjective used to describe something that is giving an impression different from the true one; misleading. It suggests that a new thing is not what it seems. For example, a new person can be very **deceptive**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is giving an impression different from the true one; misleading.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **deceptive** person," "a **deceptive** appearance," "a **deceptive** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new person is very **deceptive**, so you can't trust him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **deceptive** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be a **deceptive** one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be a **deceptive** one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deceptive** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **deceptive** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **deceptive** one for a new system."

**Synonyms**: Misleading, false, fraudulent, dishonest, cunning.

**Opposite words**: Honest, truthful, genuine, straightforward, transparent.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deceptus* (taken away, deceived).



.. _difference:

================================================================================
Difference
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɪfrəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A point or way in which people or things are not the same.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**difference**" is a **distinction or a point of unlikeness** between two or more things.

**What it really means**: "**Difference**" is a noun that refers to a point or way in which people or things are not the same. It suggests that a new thing is not the same as a new thing. For example, a new thing can have a new **difference**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a point or way in which people or things are not the same.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a big **difference**," "a new **difference**," "a lot of **difference**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There is a big **difference** between the two things, so I like the new one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **difference** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **difference** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **difference** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **difference** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **difference** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **difference** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Distinction, variation, disparity, contrast, divergence.

**Opposite words**: Sameness, similarity, likeness, resemblance, equality.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *differentia* (difference).



.. _accumulation:

================================================================================
Accumulation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əˌkjuːmjəˈleɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The acquisition or gradual gathering of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**accumulation**" is the **process of gathering or amassing something over time**, or the resulting collection.

**What it really means**: "**Accumulation**" is a noun that refers to the acquisition or gradual gathering of something. It suggests that a new thing is being gathered. For example, a new thing can have a new **accumulation**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the acquisition or gradual gathering of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **accumulation**," "a lot of **accumulation**," "a slow **accumulation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There is a new **accumulation** of new things, so I need to clean up."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **accumulation** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **accumulation** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **accumulation** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **accumulation** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **accumulation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **accumulation** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Collection, gathering, build-up, stockpile, hoard.

**Opposite words**: Dispersion, dissipation, distribution, dispersal, scattering.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *accumulare* (to heap up).



.. _solution:

================================================================================
Solution
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈluːʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A means of solving a problem or dealing with a difficult situation.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**solution**" is a **way to solve a problem**, or the answer to a question.

**What it really means**: "**Solution**" is a noun that refers to a means of solving a problem or dealing with a difficult situation. It suggests that a new thing can fix a new problem. For example, a new thing can be a new **solution**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a means of solving a problem or dealing with a difficult situation.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **solution**," "a perfect **solution**," "a good **solution**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I found a new **solution** to the new problem, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to be a **solution** to the new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to be a **solution** to the new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be a **solution** to the new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **solution** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to find a **solution** to a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **solution** to a new system."

**Synonyms**: Answer, resolution, remedy, fix, key.

**Opposite words**: Problem, difficulty, obstacle, issue, dilemma.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *solutio* (an unfastening, a solving).



.. _extension:

================================================================================
Extension
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈstɛnʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of extending something or the state of being extended.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**extension**" is the **process of making something longer or larger**, or an added part that does so.

**What it really means**: "**Extension**" is a noun that refers to the action of extending something or the state of being extended. It suggests that a new thing is being made longer. For example, a new plan can have a new **extension**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of extending something or the state of being extended.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **extension**," "a time **extension**," "a new **extension**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new plan has a new **extension**, so we have more time."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **extension** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **extension** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **extension** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **extension** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **extension** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **extension** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Addition, supplement, prolongation, continuation, expansion.

**Opposite words**: Shortening, reduction, contraction, compression, termination.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *extensio* (a stretching out).



.. _kindly:

================================================================================
Kindly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkaɪndli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a kind manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**kindly**" is to be **in a gentle, friendly, or considerate way**, often used as a polite request.

**What it really means**: "**Kindly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a kind manner. It suggests that a new person is being very nice. For example, a new person can **kindly** help a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a kind manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**kindly** help," "**kindly** ask," "**kindly** give."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **kindly** helped me, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **kindly** help others."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **kindly** help others."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **kindly** help others."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **kindly** help others can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **kindly** help others."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **kindly** help a new system."

**Synonyms**: Gently, warmly, benevolently, generously, thoughtfully.

**Opposite words**: Unkindly, cruelly, harshly, meanly, rudely.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *cyndelic* (natural).



.. _cures:

================================================================================
Cures
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kjʊərz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To heal, to restore to health; (Noun) A medicine or treatment that cures a disease.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**cures**" is the **act of making a person or illness healthy again**, or a treatment that achieves this.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**cure**" means to heal, to restore to health. As a **noun**, "**cures**" refers to a medicine or treatment that cures a disease. For example, a new medicine can **cure** a new disease.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of healing, to restore to health, and the noun to refer to a medicine or treatment that cures a disease.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**cures** a new disease," "**cures** a new problem," "**cures** a new thing."
        * **(Noun)** "a new **cure**," "a good **cure**," "a lot of **cures**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new medicine **cures** the new disease, so it is a very good one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **cures** for a new problem."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **cures** for a new problem."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **cures** for a new problem."
            * "The study examines how a person's **cure** for a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to find a **cure** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **cure** for a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Heal, remedy, restore, fix, treat; (Noun) Remedy, treatment, medicine, solution.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Worsen, aggravate, harm, damage; (Noun) Illness, disease, ailment.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *curare* (to take care of).



.. _mutually:

================================================================================
Mutually
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈmjuːtʃuəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of a feeling or action) experienced or done by each of two or more parties towards the other or others.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**mutually**" is to be **in a way that is shared or done by two or more people toward each other**.

**What it really means**: "**Mutually**" is an adverb used to describe something that is (of a feeling or action) experienced or done by each of two or more parties towards the other or others. It suggests that a new thing is being done by two people at the same time. For example, a new person and a new person can **mutually** agree on a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is (of a feeling or action) experienced or done by each of two or more parties towards the other or others.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**mutually** agree," "**mutually** beneficial," "**mutually** respectful."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We **mutually** agreed on the new thing, so we are both happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **mutually** beneficial problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **mutually** beneficial problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **mutually** beneficial problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **mutually** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **mutually** beneficial problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **mutually** beneficial problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Reciprocally, jointly, collectively, together, in common.

**Opposite words**: Individually, unilaterally, separately, independently.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *mutuus* (reciprocal).



.. _increasingly:

================================================================================
Increasingly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈkriːsɪŋli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To an increasing extent; more and more.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**increasingly**" is to be **to a growing degree or extent**, or more and more.

**What it really means**: "**Increasingly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is happening to an increasing extent; more and more. It suggests that a new thing is becoming more and more. For example, a new problem is **increasingly** becoming a new problem.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is happening to an increasing extent; more and more.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**increasingly** difficult," "**increasingly** popular," "**increasingly** a new problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new problem is **increasingly** becoming a new problem, so we need to address it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **increasingly** difficult problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **increasingly** difficult problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **increasingly** difficult problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **increasingly** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **increasingly** difficult problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **increasingly** difficult problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: More and more, progressively, steadily, a growing number of.

**Opposite words**: Decreasingly, less and less, dwindling, gradually.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *encreistre* (to grow).



.. _examination:

================================================================================
Examination
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪɡˌzæmɪˈneɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A detailed inspection or analysis of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**examination**" is a **careful and detailed inspection or test**, often to check knowledge or quality.

**What it really means**: "**Examination**" is a noun that refers to a detailed inspection or analysis of something. It suggests that a new thing is being looked at very carefully. For example, a new thing can have a new **examination**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a detailed inspection or analysis of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **examination**," "a detailed **examination**," "a medical **examination**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to do a new **examination** of the new thing, so I can find out what is wrong with it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **examination** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **examination** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **examination** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **examination** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **examination** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **examination** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Inspection, scrutiny, test, analysis, survey.

**Opposite words**: Oversight, glance, disregard, inattention.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *examinare* (to weigh).



.. _unreliable:

================================================================================
Unreliable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌʌnrɪˈlaɪəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not able to be relied upon.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**unreliable**" is to be **not able to be trusted or depended upon**, or to be inconsistent.

**What it really means**: "**Unreliable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not able to be relied upon. It suggests that a new person is not very trustworthy. For example, a new person can be very **unreliable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not able to be relied upon.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **unreliable** person," "an **unreliable** source," "an **unreliable** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **unreliable** person, so I can't trust him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **unreliable** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **unreliable** people in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **unreliable** people in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **unreliable** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **unreliable** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **unreliable** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Untrustworthy, inconsistent, undependable, unpredictable, faulty.

**Opposite words**: Reliable, trustworthy, dependable, consistent, sure.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *relier* (to fasten, to rely on).



.. _impression:

================================================================================
Impression
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪmˈprɛʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An idea, feeling, or opinion about something or someone, especially one formed without conscious thought or on the basis of little evidence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**impression**" is an **idea or feeling that a person forms about something**, or the effect that something has on a person.

**What it really means**: "**Impression**" is a noun that refers to an idea, feeling, or opinion about something or someone, especially one formed without conscious thought or on the basis of little evidence. It suggests that a new person has an idea about a new thing. For example, a new person can have a new **impression**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an idea, feeling, or opinion about something or someone, especially one formed without conscious thought or on the basis of little evidence.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a good **impression**," "a bad **impression**," "a new **impression**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a good **impression** of the new person, so I like him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **impression** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **impression** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **impression** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **impression** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **impression** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **impression** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Feeling, idea, sense, notion, opinion, effect.

**Opposite words**: Fact, reality, certainty, truth, knowledge.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *impressio* (a pressing in, a stamping).



.. _shortcoming:

================================================================================
Shortcoming
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈʃɔːrtˌkʌmɪŋ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A fault or failure to meet a certain standard.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**shortcoming**" is a **flaw, fault, or deficiency**, especially in a person's character or a system's design.

**What it really means**: "**Shortcoming**" is a noun that refers to a fault or failure to meet a certain standard. It suggests that a new thing has a new problem. For example, a new plan can have a new **shortcoming**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a fault or failure to meet a certain standard.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **shortcoming**," "a major **shortcoming**," "a lot of **shortcomings**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new plan has a new **shortcoming**, so we need to fix it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **shortcoming** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **shortcoming** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **shortcoming** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **shortcoming** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **shortcoming** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **shortcoming** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Flaw, defect, weakness, fault, deficiency, failing.

**Opposite words**: Strength, advantage, perfection, benefit.

**Where it comes from**: From *short* and *coming*.



.. _preliminary:

================================================================================
Preliminary
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈlɪmɪnəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Denoting an action or event preceding or done in preparation for something fuller or more important.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**preliminary**" is to be **happening before the main event or action**, or to be preparatory.

**What it really means**: "**Preliminary**" is an adjective used to describe something that is denoting an action or event preceding or done in preparation for something fuller or more important. It suggests that a new thing is happening before a new thing. For example, a new thing can be a new **preliminary**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is denoting an action or event preceding or done in preparation for something fuller or more important.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **preliminary** meeting," "a **preliminary** report," "a **preliminary** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We are going to have a **preliminary** meeting, so we can prepare for the main one."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **preliminary** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **preliminary** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **preliminary** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **preliminary** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **preliminary** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **preliminary** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Introductory, preparatory, initial, preceding, preparatory.

**Opposite words**: Final, concluding, ultimate, main, last.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *prae-* (before) and *limen* (threshold).



.. _intuitively:

================================================================================
Intuitively
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈtjuːɪtɪvli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: By means of intuition, without conscious reasoning.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**intuitively**" is to be **based on a natural sense or gut feeling**, rather than on careful thought or logic.

**What it really means**: "**Intuitively**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done by means of intuition, without conscious reasoning. It suggests that a new person just knows a new thing. For example, a new person **intuitively** knows a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done by means of intuition, without conscious reasoning.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**intuitively** know," "**intuitively** feel," "**intuitively** understand."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **intuitively** knew the answer, so he is a very smart person."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **intuitively** know a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **intuitively** know a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **intuitively** know a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **intuitively** know a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **intuitively** know a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **intuitively** know a new system."

**Synonyms**: Instinctively, instinctively, by gut feeling, naturally, spontaneously.

**Opposite words**: Logically, consciously, deliberately, rationally, analytically.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *intueri* (to look at, to consider).



.. _initially:

================================================================================
Initially
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈnɪʃəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: At first; at the beginning.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**initially**" is to be **at the beginning of a process or period**, or at first.

**What it really means**: "**Initially**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done at first; at the beginning. It suggests that a new thing is happening at the beginning of a new thing. For example, a new thing **initially** happened.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done at first; at the beginning.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**initially** happen," "**initially** start," "**initially** think."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **initially** thought the new thing was a good one, but he changed his mind."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **initially** happen."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **initially** happen."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **initially** happen."
            * "The study examines how a person's **initially** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **initially** happen."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **initially** happen."

**Synonyms**: At first, at the outset, originally, primarily, to begin with.

**Opposite words**: Finally, eventually, ultimately, in the end, later.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *initium* (beginning).



.. _communicative:

================================================================================
Communicative
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəˈmjuːnɪkətɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Willing to talk or impart information.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**communicative**" is to be **willing and able to talk to others**, and to share thoughts and feelings easily.

**What it really means**: "**Communicative**" is an adjective used to describe something that is willing to talk or impart information. It suggests that a new person is very good at talking. For example, a new person can be very **communicative**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is willing to talk or impart information.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **communicative** person," "a **communicative** style," "a **communicative** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **communicative** person, so I like to talk to him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **communicative** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **communicative** people in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **communicative** people in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **communicative** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **communicative** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **communicative** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Talkative, expressive, open, sociable, forthcoming.

**Opposite words**: Uncommunicative, reserved, taciturn, quiet, secretive.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *communicare* (to share).



.. _protect:

================================================================================
Protect
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prəˈtɛkt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To keep safe from harm or injury.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**protect**" is to **keep a person or thing safe from harm**, or to guard it.

**What it really means**: To "**protect**" means to keep safe from harm or injury. It is the act of keeping a new thing safe. For example, a new person can **protect** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of keeping safe from harm or injury.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**protect** a new thing," "**protect** a new person," "**protect** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to **protect** the new thing, so nobody will hurt it."
            * "The new policy is designed to **protect** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to **protect** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **protect** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **protect** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **protect** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **protect** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Guard, defend, shield, safeguard, secure.

**Opposite words**: Harm, attack, damage, expose, endanger.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *protegere* (to cover in front).



.. _invasion:

================================================================================
Invasion
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈveɪʒən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An instance of invading a country or region with an armed force.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**invasion**" is the **act of entering a place with force**, especially by an army, to take control.

**What it really means**: "**Invasion**" is a noun that refers to an instance of invading a country or region with an armed force. It suggests that a new country is being attacked. For example, a new country can have a new **invasion**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an instance of invading a country or region with an armed force.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **invasion**," "a foreign **invasion**," "an enemy **invasion**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new country is having a new **invasion**, so a lot of people are scared."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **invasion** of a new country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **invasion** of a new country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **invasion** of a new country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **invasion** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **invasion** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **invasion** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Attack, assault, incursion, raid, encroachment.

**Opposite words**: Retreat, withdrawal, evacuation, defense, surrender.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *invasio* (an assault upon).



.. _changeable:

================================================================================
Changeable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtʃeɪndʒəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Liable to change.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**changeable**" is to be **likely to change or vary**, or to be unpredictable.

**What it really means**: "**Changeable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is liable to change. It suggests that a new thing can be changed. For example, a new plan can be very **changeable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is liable to change.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **changeable** plan," "a **changeable** weather," "a **changeable** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new plan is very **changeable**, so we need to be ready for anything."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **changeable** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **changeable** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **changeable** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **changeable** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **changeable** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **changeable** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Variable, unpredictable, inconsistent, erratic, fickle.

**Opposite words**: Unchangeable, constant, stable, consistent, predictable.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *changer* (to change).



.. _triumph:

================================================================================
Triumph
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtraɪəmf/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: A great victory or achievement.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**triumph**" is a **great victory or success**, or the feeling of joy that comes with it.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**triumph**" refers to a great victory or achievement. As a **verb**, to "**triumph**" means to achieve a great victory or success. For example, a new team can have a new **triumph**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a great victory or achievement, and the verb to refer to the act of achieving a great victory or success.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a great **triumph**," "a new **triumph**," "a feeling of **triumph**."
        * **(Verb)** "**triumph** over a new thing," "**triumph** in a new competition."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new team had a great **triumph**, so they are very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **triumph** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **triumph** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **triumph** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **triumph** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to achieve a **triumph** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **triumph** for a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Victory, success, achievement, win, conquest; (Verb) Succeed, prevail, win, overcome.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Defeat, failure, loss, downfall; (Verb) Fail, lose, be defeated.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *triumphus* (a public celebration of a victory).



.. _partly:

================================================================================
Partly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpɑːrtli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To some extent; not completely.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**partly**" is to be **to a certain degree or extent**, but not fully or entirely.

**What it really means**: "**Partly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done to some extent; not completely. It suggests that a new thing is being done to a certain degree. For example, a new thing is **partly** done.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done to some extent; not completely.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**partly** done," "**partly** true," "**partly** a new problem."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is **partly** done, so I need to finish it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that are **partly** caused by a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that are **partly** caused by a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that are **partly** caused by a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **partly** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that are **partly** caused by a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that are **partly** caused by a new system."

**Synonyms**: Partially, somewhat, in part, to a degree, slightly.

**Opposite words**: Wholly, completely, entirely, fully, totally.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *part* (part).



.. _irresponsibly:

================================================================================
Irresponsibly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪrɪˈspɒnsəbli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that shows a lack of responsibility.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**irresponsibly**" is to be **in a careless or reckless way**, without thinking about the consequences.

**What it really means**: "**Irresponsibly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that shows a lack of responsibility. It suggests that a new person is being careless. For example, a new person **irresponsibly** did a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that shows a lack of responsibility.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**irresponsibly** act," "**irresponsibly** drive," "**irresponsibly** spend."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **irresponsibly** drove the car, so he got into a new accident."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **irresponsibly** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **irresponsibly** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **irresponsibly** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **irresponsibly** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **irresponsibly** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the people who **irresponsibly** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Recklessly, carelessly, foolishly, thoughtlessly, unwisely.

**Opposite words**: Responsibly, carefully, wisely, sensibly, prudently.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *ir-* (not) and *respondere* (to respond).



.. _occupation:

================================================================================
Occupation
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɒkjəˈpeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A person's job or profession.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**occupation**" is a **person's job, profession, or principal activity**. It can also mean the act of occupying a place.

**What it really means**: "**Occupation**" is a noun that refers to a person's job or profession. It suggests that a new person has a new job. For example, a new person can have a new **occupation**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a person's job or profession.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **occupation**," "a full-time **occupation**," "a part-time **occupation**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "My new **occupation** is very interesting, so I like it very much."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **occupation** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **occupation** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **occupation** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **occupation** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **occupation** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **occupation** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Job, profession, career, work, vocation, employment.

**Opposite words**: Unemployment, leisure, hobby, idleness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *occupatio* (a taking, a seizing).



.. _implement:

================================================================================
Implement
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɪmplɪmɛnt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To put (a decision, plan, or agreement) into effect.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**implement**" is to **put a plan or decision into action** or to carry it out.

**What it really means**: To "**implement**" means to put (a decision, plan, or agreement) into effect. It is the act of putting a new plan into action. For example, a new person can **implement** a new plan.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of putting (a decision, plan, or agreement) into effect.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**implement** a new plan," "**implement** a new policy," "**implement** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "We are going to **implement** the new plan, so we can get it done."
            * "The new policy is designed to **implement** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to **implement** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **implement** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **implement** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **implement** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **implement** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Execute, carry out, enact, put into practice, apply.

**Opposite words**: Neglect, abandon, postpone, delay, stop.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *implere* (to fill up).



.. _admit:

================================================================================
Admit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ədˈmɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To confess to be true or to be the case.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**admit**" is to **confess or acknowledge something to be true**, often something that is difficult to say. It can also mean to allow entry.

**What it really means**: To "**admit**" means to confess to be true or to be the case. It is the act of saying that a new thing is true. For example, a new person can **admit** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of confessing to be true or to be the case.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**admit** a new thing," "**admit** a new mistake," "**admit** a new fault."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **admit** his new mistake, so he is a very good person."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **admit** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **admit** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **admit** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **admit** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **admit** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **admit** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Confess, acknowledge, concede, grant, allow.

**Opposite words**: Deny, reject, refuse, disclaim, conceal.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *admittere* (to send to).



.. _predisposition:

================================================================================
Predisposition
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌpriːdɪspəˈzɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A liability or tendency to suffer from a particular condition.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**predisposition**" is a **tendency or inclination to behave or develop in a certain way**, often due to genetics or upbringing.

**What it really means**: "**Predisposition**" is a noun that refers to a liability or tendency to suffer from a particular condition. It suggests that a new person has a new tendency. For example, a new person can have a new **predisposition**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a liability or tendency to suffer from a particular condition.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a genetic **predisposition**," "a new **predisposition**," "a family **predisposition**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a genetic **predisposition** to the new disease, so he needs to be careful."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **predisposition** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **predisposition** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **predisposition** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **predisposition** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **predisposition** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **predisposition** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Tendency, inclination, susceptibility, proneness, bias.

**Opposite words**: Aversion, resistance, immunity, disinclination, opposition.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *prae-* (before) and *disponere* (to arrange).



.. _complete:

================================================================================
Complete
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kəmˈpliːt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Adjective) Having all the necessary or appropriate parts; (Verb) To finish making or doing something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**complete**" is to be **finished, having all parts**, or the act of finishing something.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**complete**" refers to having all the necessary or appropriate parts. As a **verb**, to "**complete**" means to finish making or doing something. For example, a new thing can be **complete**.

**When to use it**: Use the adjective to refer to having all the necessary or appropriate parts, and the verb to refer to the act of finishing making or doing something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **complete** set," "a **complete** list," "a **complete** new idea."
        * **(Verb)** "**complete** a new thing," "**complete** a new project," "**complete** a new task."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is **complete**, so I can use it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **complete** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be a **complete** one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be a **complete** one."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **complete** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to be **complete** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to be a **complete** one for a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Adjective) Whole, entire, full, finished, thorough; (Verb) Finish, conclude, finalize, accomplish, achieve.

**Opposite words**: (Adjective) Incomplete, partial, unfinished, lacking; (Verb) Start, begin, commence.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *completus* (filled up).



.. _penalty:

================================================================================
Penalty
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpɛnəlti/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A punishment imposed for breaking a law, rule, or contract.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**penalty**" is a **punishment for breaking a rule or law**, or a disadvantage that is imposed.

**What it really means**: "**Penalty**" is a noun that refers to a punishment imposed for breaking a law, rule, or contract. It suggests that a new person has to do a new thing because of a new problem. For example, a new person can get a new **penalty**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a punishment imposed for breaking a law, rule, or contract.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **penalty**," "a heavy **penalty**," "a legal **penalty**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He got a new **penalty** for breaking the new rule, so he is not happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **penalty** for a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **penalty** for a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **penalty** for a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **penalty** for a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **penalty** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **penalty** for a new system."

**Synonyms**: Punishment, fine, sanction, consequence, forfeit.

**Opposite words**: Reward, prize, bonus, benefit, advantage.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *penalite* (punishment).



.. _politely:

================================================================================
Politely
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/pəˈlaɪtli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a respectful and considerate manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**politely**" is to be **in a manner that shows good manners and respect**, or to be courteous.

**What it really means**: "**Politely**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a respectful and considerate manner. It suggests that a new person is being very nice. For example, a new person can **politely** ask a new person for help.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a respectful and considerate manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**politely** ask," "**politely** decline," "**politely** refuse."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **politely** asked me for help, so I helped him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **politely** ask for help."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **politely** ask for help."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **politely** ask for help."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **politely** ask for help can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **politely** ask for help."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **politely** ask for help."

**Synonyms**: Courteously, respectfully, graciously, civilly, considerately.

**Opposite words**: Impolitely, rudely, harshly, disrespectfully, discourteously.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *politus* (polished).



.. _intentional:

================================================================================
Intentional
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈtɛnʃənəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Done on purpose; deliberate.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**intentional**" is to be **done with a clear purpose or plan**, and not by accident.

**What it really means**: "**Intentional**" is an adjective used to describe something that is done on purpose; deliberate. It suggests that a new thing is being done on purpose. For example, a new thing can be very **intentional**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done on purpose; deliberate.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **intentional** act," "an **intentional** lie," "an **intentional** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He did an **intentional** act, so he is a very bad person."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **intentional** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be a very **intentional** one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be a very **intentional** one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **intentional** idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **intentional** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **intentional** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Deliberate, purposeful, conscious, planned, willful.

**Opposite words**: Accidental, unintentional, unplanned, inadvertent, spontaneous.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *intendere* (to stretch toward).



.. _accelerate:

================================================================================
Accelerate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əkˈsɛləreɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To begin to move more quickly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**accelerate**" is to **increase in speed or rate**, or to cause something to happen faster.

**What it really means**: To "**accelerate**" means to begin to move more quickly. It is the act of making a new thing go faster. For example, a new person can **accelerate** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of beginning to move more quickly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**accelerate** a new thing," "**accelerate** a new process," "**accelerate** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **accelerate** the new thing, so I can finish it faster."
            * "The new policy is designed to **accelerate** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to **accelerate** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **accelerate** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **accelerate** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **accelerate** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **accelerate** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Speed up, hasten, quicken, expedite, step up.

**Opposite words**: Decelerate, slow down, impede, hinder, delay.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *accelerare* (to hasten).



.. _interact:

================================================================================
Interact
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪntərˈækt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To act in such a way as to have an effect on another.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**interact**" is to **act together or have an effect on each other**.

**What it really means**: To "**interact**" means to act in such a way as to have an effect on another. It is the act of a new person talking to a new person. For example, a new person can **interact** with a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of acting in such a way as to have an effect on another.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**interact** with a new person," "**interact** with a new thing," "**interact** with a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I like to **interact** with new people, so I can learn new things."
            * "The new policy is designed to help people **interact** with a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to help people **interact** with a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to help people **interact** with a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **interact** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to help people **interact** with a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **interact** with a new system."

**Synonyms**: Communicate, engage, socialize, connect, cooperate.

**Opposite words**: Avoid, ignore, separate, isolate, disengage.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *inter* (between) and *agere* (to do, to act).



.. _early:

================================================================================
Early
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɜːrli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*, *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Happening or done before the usual or expected time.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**early**" is to be **happening or done before the expected time**, or near the beginning of a period.

**What it really means**: As an **adjective**, "**early**" refers to happening or done before the usual or expected time. As an **adverb**, "**early**" refers to happening or done before the usual or expected time. For example, a new person can be very **early**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to happening or done before the usual or expected time.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "an **early** person," "an **early** bird," "an **early** new idea."
        * **(Adverb)** "come **early**," "start **early**," "finish **early**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **early** person, so he is always on time."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **early** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be an **early** one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be an **early** one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **early** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **early** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **early** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: (Adjective) Premature, timely, prompt, ahead of schedule; (Adverb) Promptly, soon, quickly, beforehand.

**Opposite words**: Late, delayed, overdue, tardy.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *ærlice* (early).



.. _extinction:

================================================================================
Extinction
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪkˈstɪŋkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state or process of a species, family, or other group of animals or plants dying out.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**extinction**" is the **process of a species or group of organisms dying out completely**, so that none are left.

**What it really means**: "**Extinction**" is a noun that refers to the state or process of a species, family, or other group of animals or plants dying out. It suggests that a new thing is no longer in existence. For example, a new thing can be in **extinction**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state or process of a species, family, or other group of animals or plants dying out.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **extinction**," "a mass **extinction**," "in danger of **extinction**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is in **extinction**, so we need to save it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **extinction** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **extinction** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **extinction** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **extinction** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **extinction** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **extinction** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Vanishing, disappearance, demise, eradication, annihilation.

**Opposite words**: Survival, existence, proliferation, revival.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *extinguere* (to quench, to put out).



.. _outbreak:

================================================================================
Outbreak
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈaʊtbreɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A sudden occurrence of something unwelcome, such as war or disease.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**outbreak**" is a **sudden and often violent start of something undesirable**, like a disease or a conflict.

**What it really means**: "**Outbreak**" is a noun that refers to a sudden occurrence of something unwelcome, such as war or disease. It suggests that a new thing has started very fast. For example, a new thing can have a new **outbreak**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a sudden occurrence of something unwelcome, such as war or disease.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **outbreak**," "a disease **outbreak**," "a war **outbreak**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "There is a new **outbreak** of the new disease, so we need to be careful."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **outbreak** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **outbreak** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **outbreak** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **outbreak** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **outbreak** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **outbreak** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Eruption, epidemic, flare-up, surge, sudden occurrence.

**Opposite words**: Cessation, conclusion, end, resolution, subsidence.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *ūtbrecan* (to break out).

.. _desperately:

================================================================================
Desperately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɛspərətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that shows a lack of hope; despairingly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**desperately**" is to be **with a strong sense of urgency or need**, often because of a hopeless situation.

**What it really means**: "**Desperately**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that shows a lack of hope; despairingly. It suggests that a new person is in a very bad situation. For example, a new person can **desperately** need a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that shows a lack of hope; despairingly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**desperately** need," "**desperately** want," "**desperately** try."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **desperately** needed help, so I helped him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **desperately** need help."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **desperately** need help."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **desperately** need help."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **desperately** need a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **desperately** need help."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people who **desperately** need a new system."

**Synonyms**: Urgently, despairingly, hopelessly, frantically, intensely.

**Opposite words**: Calmly, patiently, hopefully, contentedly, confidently.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *desperare* (to despair).



.. _deteriorate:

================================================================================
Deteriorate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/dɪˈtɪəriəreɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To become progressively worse.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**deteriorate**" is to **gradually decline in quality or condition**, or to become worse over time.

**What it really means**: To "**deteriorate**" means to become progressively worse. It is the act of a new thing becoming worse. For example, a new thing can **deteriorate**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of becoming progressively worse.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**deteriorate** quickly," "**deteriorate** slowly," "**deteriorate** over time."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is starting to **deteriorate**, so I need to fix it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **deteriorate** over time."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **deteriorate** over time."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **deteriorate** over time."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deteriorating** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **deteriorate** over time."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **deteriorate** over time."

**Synonyms**: Worsen, decline, degenerate, decay, fall apart.

**Opposite words**: Improve, recover, enhance, flourish, progress.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deterior* (worse).



.. _speculate:

================================================================================
Speculate
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈspɛkjəleɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To form a theory or conjecture about a subject without firm evidence.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**speculate**" is to **form a guess or theory without having all the facts**, or to guess about what might happen.

**What it really means**: To "**speculate**" means to form a theory or conjecture about a subject without firm evidence. It is the act of a new person guessing about a new thing. For example, a new person can **speculate** about a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of forming a theory or conjecture about a subject without firm evidence.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**speculate** about a new thing," "**speculate** on a new thing," "**speculate** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I can **speculate** about the new thing, but I don't know for sure."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **speculate** about a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **speculate** about a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **speculate** about a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **speculate** about a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **speculate** about a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **speculate** about a new system."

**Synonyms**: Guess, hypothesize, conjecture, theorize, surmise.

**Opposite words**: Know, prove, verify, confirm, substantiate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *speculari* (to observe).



.. _suspiciously:

================================================================================
Suspiciously
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səˈspɪʃəsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a distrustful or wary manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**suspiciously**" is to be **in a way that suggests distrust, doubt, or a hint of something wrong**.

**What it really means**: "**Suspiciously**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a distrustful or wary manner. It suggests that a new person is looking at a new thing in a weird way. For example, a new person can **suspiciously** look at a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a distrustful or wary manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**suspiciously** look," "**suspiciously** act," "**suspiciously** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is **suspiciously** looking at me, so I don't like it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **suspiciously** act."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **suspiciously** act."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **suspiciously** act."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **suspiciously** act can affect their career."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **suspiciously** act."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **suspiciously** look at a new system."

**Synonyms**: Warily, distrustfully, doubtfully, cagily, questioningly.

**Opposite words**: Trustingly, confidently, openly, innocently, assuredly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *suspicere* (to look up, to mistrust).



.. _privately:

================================================================================
Privately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈpraɪvətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that is not intended to be known by a large number of people.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**privately**" is to be **in a personal or secret manner**, without the involvement of others.

**What it really means**: "**Privately**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that is not intended to be known by a large number of people. It suggests that a new thing is being done in secret. For example, a new person can **privately** talk to a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that is not intended to be known by a large number of people.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**privately** talk," "**privately** discuss," "**privately** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **privately** talked to me, so I know a secret."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **privately** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **privately** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **privately** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **privately** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **privately** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **privately** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Secretly, confidentially, in private, in confidence, discreetly.

**Opposite words**: Publicly, openly, officially, transparently, blatantly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *privatus* (personal, not public).



.. _virtually:

================================================================================
Virtually
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvɜːrtʃuəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: Almost; nearly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**virtually**" is to be **almost or nearly true**, or to be in effect though not officially.

**What it really means**: "**Virtually**" is an adverb used to describe something that is almost; nearly. It suggests that a new thing is almost a new thing. For example, a new thing is **virtually** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is almost; nearly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**virtually** impossible," "**virtually** the same," "**virtually** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is **virtually** impossible to do, so I can't do it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **virtually** impossible problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be **virtually** a new one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be **virtually** a new one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **virtually** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **virtually** impossible problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **virtually** impossible problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Almost, nearly, practically, essentially, in effect.

**Opposite words**: Actually, truly, really, genuinely, literally.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *virtualis* (relating to excellence).



.. _justification:

================================================================================
Justification
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌdʒʌstɪfɪˈkeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The action of showing something to be right or reasonable.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**justification**" is a **reason or defense that explains why an action or belief is right or acceptable**.

**What it really means**: "**Justification**" is a noun that refers to the action of showing something to be right or reasonable. It suggests that a new thing has a new reason. For example, a new thing can have a new **justification**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the action of showing something to be right or reasonable.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **justification**," "a lack of **justification**," "a good **justification**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I don't have a **justification** for the new thing, so I can't do it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **justification** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **justification** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **justification** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **justification** for a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **justification** for a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **justification** for a new system."

**Synonyms**: Reason, rationale, grounds, basis, defense.

**Opposite words**: Unjustification, illegitimacy, unreasonableness.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *justificare* (to do justice to, to justify).



.. _prefer:

================================================================================
Prefer
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/prɪˈfɜːr/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To like one thing or person more than another or others.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**prefer**" is to **like one option better than another**, or to have a stronger desire for it.

**What it really means**: To "**prefer**" means to like one thing or person more than another or others. It is the act of a new person liking a new thing more than a new thing. For example, a new person can **prefer** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of liking one thing or person more than another or others.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**prefer** a new thing," "**prefer** a new person," "**prefer** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I **prefer** the new thing, so I am going to use it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **prefer** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **prefer** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **prefer** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **prefer** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **prefer** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people who **prefer** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Favor, choose, opt for, lean toward, rather.

**Opposite words**: Dislike, hate, despise, reject, oppose.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *praeferre* (to carry in front, to prefer).



.. _quarrel:

================================================================================
Quarrel
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkwɒrəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) An angry argument or disagreement; (Verb) To have an angry argument or disagreement.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**quarrel**" is a **dispute or argument**, or the act of having one.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**quarrel**" refers to an angry argument or disagreement. As a **verb**, to "**quarrel**" means to have an angry argument or disagreement. For example, a new person can have a new **quarrel** with a new person.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to an angry argument or disagreement, and the verb to refer to the act of having an angry argument or disagreement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **quarrel**," "a big **quarrel**," "a lot of **quarrels**."
        * **(Verb)** "**quarrel** with a new person," "**quarrel** about a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He had a new **quarrel** with his friend, so he is not happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **quarrel** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **quarrel** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **quarrel** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **quarrel** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **quarrel** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **quarrel** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Argument, dispute, disagreement, conflict, feud; (Verb) Argue, disagree, bicker, squabble.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Agreement, peace, harmony, consensus; (Verb) Agree, reconcile, get along.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *querela* (a complaint).



.. _convenience:

================================================================================
Convenience
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kənˈviːniəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being able to do something easily.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**convenience**" is the **quality of being easy, practical, or free from difficulty**, often saving time or effort.

**What it really means**: "**Convenience**" is a noun that refers to the state of being able to do something easily. It suggests that a new thing is very easy to do. For example, a new thing can have a new **convenience**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of being able to do something easily.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **convenience**," "for your **convenience**," "at your **convenience**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is a great **convenience**, so I like it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **convenience** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **convenience** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **convenience** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **convenience** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **convenience** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **convenience** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Easiness, simplicity, practicality, accessibility, handiness.

**Opposite words**: Inconvenience, difficulty, hardship, trouble.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *convenire* (to come together).



.. _hopefully:

================================================================================
Hopefully
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhəʊpfəli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a hopeful manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**hopefully**" is to be **in a way that expresses hope**, or with the desire that something will happen.

**What it really means**: "**Hopefully**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a hopeful manner. It suggests that a new person wants a new thing to happen. For example, a new person can **hopefully** do a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a hopeful manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**hopefully** happen," "**hopefully** succeed," "**hopefully** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am **hopefully** going to get the new job, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **hopefully** want a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **hopefully** want a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **hopefully** want a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **hopefully** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **hopefully** want a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **hopefully** get a new system."

**Synonyms**: Optimistically, with hope, desirably, promisingly.

**Opposite words**: Hopelessly, despairingly, pessimistically.

**Where it comes from**: From Old English *hopian* (to hope).



.. _vulnerable:

================================================================================
Vulnerable
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈvʌlnərəbəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Exposed to the possibility of being attacked or harmed.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**vulnerable**" is to be **open to physical or emotional harm or attack**, or to be easily hurt.

**What it really means**: "**Vulnerable**" is an adjective used to describe something that is exposed to the possibility of being attacked or harmed. It suggests that a new person can be easily hurt. For example, a new person can be very **vulnerable**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is exposed to the possibility of being attacked or harmed.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **vulnerable** person," "a **vulnerable** position," "a **vulnerable** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **vulnerable** person, so I need to protect him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **vulnerable** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to protect the **vulnerable** people in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to protect the **vulnerable** people in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **vulnerable** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **vulnerable** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **vulnerable** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Exposed, defenseless, susceptible, weak, unprotected.

**Opposite words**: Invulnerable, protected, safe, secure, resilient.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *vulnerare* (to wound).



.. _happen:

================================================================================
Happen
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈhæpən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To take place; to occur.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**happen**" is for **something to take place or occur**, or for an event to come about.

**What it really means**: To "**happen**" means to take place; to occur. It is the act of a new thing coming into being. For example, a new thing can **happen**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of taking place; to occur.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**happen** to a new thing," "**happen** to a new person," "**happen** to a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I don't know what is going to **happen**, so I am scared."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the things that **happen** to a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the things that **happen** to a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the things that **happen** to a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to make things **happen** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the things that **happen** to a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help things **happen** to a new system."

**Synonyms**: Occur, take place, come about, transpire, unfold.

**Opposite words**: Stop, cease, prevent, avoid.

**Where it comes from**: From Old Norse *happ* (chance, good luck).



.. _defect:

================================================================================
Defect
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdiːfɛkt/` (noun), :code:`/dɪˈfɛkt/` (verb)
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A shortcoming, imperfection, or lack; (Verb) To abandon one's country or cause in favor of an opposing one.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**defect**" is a **flaw or imperfection**, or the act of abandoning one's loyalty to a cause or country.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**defect**" refers to a shortcoming, imperfection, or lack. As a **verb**, to "**defect**" means to abandon one's country or cause in favor of an opposing one. For example, a new thing can have a new **defect**.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a shortcoming, imperfection, or lack, and the verb to refer to the act of abandoning one's country or cause in favor of an opposing one.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **defect**," "a major **defect**," "a lot of **defects**."
        * **(Verb)** "**defect** to a new country," "**defect** from a new group."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing has a new **defect**, so I need to return it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **defect** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **defect** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **defect** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **defect** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **defect** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **defect** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Flaw, fault, imperfection, weakness, bug; (Verb) Desert, abandon, betray, turncoat.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Perfection, strength, asset, advantage; (Verb) Remain, stay, adhere, support.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deficere* (to fail).



.. _reasonably:

================================================================================
Reasonably
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈriːznəbli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a sensible, fair, or logical way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**reasonably**" is to be **in a logical, fair, or acceptable manner**, often implying a moderate degree.

**What it really means**: "**Reasonably**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a sensible, fair, or logical way. It suggests that a new thing is being done in a good way. For example, a new person can **reasonably** do a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a sensible, fair, or logical way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**reasonably** good," "**reasonably** priced," "**reasonably** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is **reasonably** priced, so I can afford it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **reasonably** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **reasonably** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **reasonably** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **reasonably** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **reasonably** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **reasonably** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Fairly, sensibly, logically, moderately, tolerably.

**Opposite words**: Unreasonably, illogically, unfairly, excessively, foolishly.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *raisonable* (rational).



.. _interrupt:

================================================================================
Interrupt
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌɪntəˈrʌpt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To stop the continuous progress of something.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**interrupt**" is to **stop an action or conversation temporarily**, or to break its continuity.

**What it really means**: To "**interrupt**" means to stop the continuous progress of something. It is the act of a new person stopping a new person from talking. For example, a new person can **interrupt** a new person.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of stopping the continuous progress of something.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**interrupt** a new person," "**interrupt** a new thing," "**interrupt** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **interrupt** me, so I can't talk."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **interrupt** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **interrupt** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **interrupt** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **interrupt** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **interrupt** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **interrupt** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Break in, intrude, stop, suspend, disrupt.

**Opposite words**: Continue, proceed, resume, support, facilitate.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *interrumpere* (to break in between).



.. _dominantly:

================================================================================
Dominantly
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɒmɪnəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a controlling or powerful manner.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**dominantly**" is to be **in a powerful, controlling, or most prominent way**.

**What it really means**: "**Dominantly**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a controlling or powerful manner. It suggests that a new person is being very powerful. For example, a new person can **dominantly** do a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a controlling or powerful manner.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**dominantly** lead," "**dominantly** control," "**dominantly** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **dominantly** led the new group, so they did a new thing."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **dominantly** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **dominantly** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **dominantly** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **dominantly** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **dominantly** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **dominantly** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Predominantly, mainly, chiefly, primarily, powerfully.

**Opposite words**: Subordinately, submissively, passively.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *dominari* (to rule, to dominate).



.. _notorious:

================================================================================
Notorious
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/nəʊˈtɔːriəs/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Famous or well known for some bad quality or deed.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**notorious**" is to be **famous for something bad**, or to have a bad reputation.

**What it really means**: "**Notorious**" is an adjective used to describe something that is famous or well known for some bad quality or deed. It suggests that a new person is famous for a new problem. For example, a new person can be very **notorious**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is famous or well known for some bad quality or deed.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **notorious** criminal," "a **notorious** place," "a **notorious** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **notorious** criminal, so I don't like him."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **notorious** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **notorious** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **notorious** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **notorious** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **notorious** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **notorious** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Infamous, disreputable, scandalous, ill-famed, dishonorable.

**Opposite words**: Renowned, celebrated, esteemed, respected, honorable.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *notus* (known).



.. _endurance:

================================================================================
Endurance
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈdjʊərəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The fact or power of enduring an unpleasant or difficult process or situation without giving way.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**endurance**" is the **ability to withstand hardship, pain, or stress over a prolonged period**.

**What it really means**: "**Endurance**" is a noun that refers to the fact or power of enduring an unpleasant or difficult process or situation without giving way. It suggests that a new person can handle a new thing. For example, a new person can have a new **endurance**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the fact or power of enduring an unpleasant or difficult process or situation without giving way.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a lot of **endurance**," "a new **endurance**," "physical **endurance**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a lot of **endurance**, so he can do the new thing."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **endurance** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **endurance** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **endurance** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **endurance** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **endurance** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **endurance** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Stamina, resilience, perseverance, fortitude, tolerance.

**Opposite words**: Weakness, fragility, frailty, surrender, yielding.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *indurare* (to make hard).



.. _alter:

================================================================================
Alter
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɔːltər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To change or cause to change in character or composition.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**alter**" is to **make a small but significant change to something**, or to modify it.

**What it really means**: To "**alter**" means to change or cause to change in character or composition. It is the act of a new person changing a new thing. For example, a new person can **alter** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of changing or causing to change in character or composition.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**alter** a new thing," "**alter** a new plan," "**alter** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **alter** the new thing, so it will be better."
            * "The new policy is designed to **alter** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to **alter** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **alter** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **alter** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **alter** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **alter** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Change, modify, adjust, revise, amend.

**Opposite words**: Maintain, preserve, keep, retain, stabilize.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *alter* (the other).



.. _rare:

================================================================================
Rare
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɛər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Not occurring very often.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**rare**" is to be **not common, unusual, or infrequent**.

**What it really means**: "**Rare**" is an adjective used to describe something that is not occurring very often. It suggests that a new thing is not very common. For example, a new thing can be very **rare**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is not occurring very often.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **rare** thing," "a **rare** event," "a **rare** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I found a very **rare** thing, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **rare** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **rare** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **rare** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **rare** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **rare** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **rare** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Uncommon, unusual, infrequent, scarce, exceptional.

**Opposite words**: Common, frequent, ordinary, usual, abundant.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *rarus* (thin, loose).



.. _offer:

================================================================================
Offer
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈɒfər/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Verb*, *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Verb) To present or propose (something) for acceptance or rejection; (Noun) A presentation of something for acceptance or rejection.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**offer**" is to **present something for someone to take or consider**, or the proposal itself.

**What it really means**: As a **verb**, to "**offer**" means to present or propose (something) for acceptance or rejection. As a **noun**, "**offer**" refers to a presentation of something for acceptance or rejection. For example, a new person can **offer** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use the verb to refer to the act of presenting or proposing (something) for acceptance or rejection, and the noun to refer to a presentation of something for acceptance or rejection.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**offer** a new thing," "**offer** help," "**offer** a new idea."
        * **(Noun)** "a new **offer**," "a good **offer**," "a job **offer**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is going to **offer** me a new job, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **offer** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **offer** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **offer** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **offer** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **offer** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **offer** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Verb) Propose, present, provide, tender, suggest; (Noun) Proposal, suggestion, bid, deal, proposition.

**Opposite words**: (Verb) Withdraw, refuse, deny, reject, take back; (Noun) Refusal, rejection, denial.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *offerre* (to present, to show).



.. _strange:

================================================================================
Strange
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/streɪndʒ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Unusual or surprising in a way that is unsettling or hard to understand.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**strange**" is to be **unusual, odd, or unfamiliar**, often in a way that is unsettling or hard to explain.

**What it really means**: "**Strange**" is an adjective used to describe something that is unusual or surprising in a way that is unsettling or hard to understand. It suggests that a new thing is very weird. For example, a new thing can be very **strange**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is unusual or surprising in a way that is unsettling or hard to understand.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **strange** person," "a **strange** thing," "a **strange** new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I saw a very **strange** thing, so I am scared."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **strange** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **strange** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **strange** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **strange** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **strange** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **strange** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Weird, odd, unusual, peculiar, bizarre.

**Opposite words**: Normal, common, familiar, usual, ordinary.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *estrange* (foreign).



.. _incompetently:

================================================================================
Incompetently
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪnˈkɒmpɪtəntli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: In a way that shows a lack of ability or skill.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**incompetently**" is to be **in a way that is unskilled, inefficient, or not capable** of doing a task well.

**What it really means**: "**Incompetently**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done in a way that shows a lack of ability or skill. It suggests that a new person is not very good at a new thing. For example, a new person can **incompetently** do a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done in a way that shows a lack of ability or skill.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**incompetently** do," "**incompetently** manage," "**incompetently** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **incompetently** did the new thing, so it is not good."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the people who **incompetently** do a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the people who **incompetently** do a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the people who **incompetently** do a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **incompetently** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the people who **incompetently** do a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to help people **incompetently** do a new system."

**Synonyms**: Unskillfully, ineptly, inefficiently, clumsily, poorly.

**Opposite words**: Competently, skillfully, expertly, efficiently, proficiently.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *in-* (not) and *competere* (to be suitable).



.. _vague:

================================================================================
Vague
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/veɪɡ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Of uncertain, indefinite, or unclear character.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**vague**" is to be **unclear, imprecise, or not well-defined**.

**What it really means**: "**Vague**" is an adjective used to describe something that is of uncertain, indefinite, or unclear character. It suggests that a new thing is not very clear. For example, a new plan can be very **vague**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is of uncertain, indefinite, or unclear character.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **vague** plan," "a **vague** idea," "a **vague** new law."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new plan is very **vague**, so I don't know what to do."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **vague** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to be a very **vague** one."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to be a very **vague** one."
            * "The study examines how a person's **vague** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **vague** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **vague** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Unclear, indefinite, ambiguous, hazy, imprecise.

**Opposite words**: Clear, precise, definite, specific, explicit.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *vagus* (wandering).



.. _objection:

================================================================================
Objection
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/əbˈdʒɛkʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: An expression or feeling of disapproval or opposition.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**objection**" is a **reason for opposing something**, or a statement of opposition.

**What it really means**: "**Objection**" is a noun that refers to an expression or feeling of disapproval or opposition. It suggests that a new person doesn't like a new thing. For example, a new person can have a new **objection** to a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to an expression or feeling of disapproval or opposition.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **objection**," "a strong **objection**," "a lot of **objections**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a new **objection** to the new thing, so I am not going to do it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **objection** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **objection** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **objection** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **objection** to a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **objection** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **objection** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Protest, opposition, disagreement, complaint, reservation.

**Opposite words**: Agreement, support, approval, acceptance, endorsement.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *obiectare* (to throw against).



.. _immediately:

================================================================================
Immediately
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪˈmiːdiətli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: At once; instantly.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**immediately**" is to be **right away, without any delay**.

**What it really means**: "**Immediately**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done at once; instantly. It suggests that a new thing is happening right now. For example, a new thing can **immediately** happen.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done at once; instantly.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**immediately** happen," "**immediately** start," "**immediately** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to do the new thing **immediately**, so I can finish it fast."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **immediately** happen."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **immediately** happen."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **immediately** happen."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **immediately** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **immediately** happen."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **immediately** happen."

**Synonyms**: Instantly, at once, right away, without delay, promptly.

**Opposite words**: Later, eventually, gradually, in time, slowly.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *immediatus* (not mediated).



.. _cause:

================================================================================
Cause
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/kɔːz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*, *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Noun) A person or thing that gives rise to an action, phenomenon, or condition; (Verb) To make (something) happen.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**cause**" is the **reason or origin of an event**, or the act of making something happen.

**What it really means**: As a **noun**, "**cause**" refers to a person or thing that gives rise to an action, phenomenon, or condition. As a **verb**, to "**cause**" means to make (something) happen. For example, a new thing can **cause** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use the noun to refer to a person or thing that gives rise to an action, phenomenon, or condition, and the verb to refer to the act of making (something) happen.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **cause**," "a root **cause**," "a direct **cause**."
        * **(Verb)** "**cause** a new thing," "**cause** a new problem," "**cause** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new thing is the **cause** of the new problem, so we need to fix it."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **cause** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **cause** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **cause** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **cause** of a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **cause** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **cause** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: (Noun) Reason, origin, source, root, factor; (Verb) Produce, create, lead to, result in, bring about.

**Opposite words**: (Noun) Effect, result, outcome, consequence; (Verb) Prevent, stop, hinder, avoid.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *causa* (reason, motive).



.. _exhausted:

================================================================================
Exhausted
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ɪɡˈzɔːstɪd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Drained of one's physical or mental energy; very tired.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**exhausted**" is to be **extremely tired**, or to have no energy left.

**What it really means**: "**Exhausted**" is an adjective used to describe something that is drained of one's physical or mental energy; very tired. It suggests that a new person is very tired. For example, a new person can be very **exhausted**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is drained of one's physical or mental energy; very tired.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "very **exhausted**," "mentally **exhausted**," "physically **exhausted**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am very **exhausted**, so I need to go to sleep."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **exhausted** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **exhausted** people in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **exhausted** people in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **exhausted** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **exhausted** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **exhausted** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Tired, fatigued, drained, worn out, weary.

**Opposite words**: Energetic, refreshed, invigorated, lively, rested.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *exhaurire* (to draw out).



.. _deficit:

================================================================================
Deficit
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈdɛfɪsɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The amount by which something, especially a sum of money, is too small.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**deficit**" is a **shortfall, or an amount by which something is less than what is needed**.

**What it really means**: "**Deficit**" is a noun that refers to the amount by which something, especially a sum of money, is too small. It suggests that a new thing is not enough. For example, a new thing can have a new **deficit**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the amount by which something, especially a sum of money, is too small.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **deficit**," "a budget **deficit**," "a trade **deficit**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "The new company has a new **deficit**, so it is not doing well."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **deficit** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **deficit** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **deficit** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **deficit** with a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **deficit** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **deficit** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Shortfall, shortage, lack, deficiency, inadequacy.

**Opposite words**: Surplus, excess, abundance, profit, gain.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *deficere* (to fail).



.. _spontaneously:

================================================================================
Spontaneously
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/spɒnˈteɪniəsli/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adverb*
* **Simple Meaning**: As a result of a sudden impulse and without premeditation.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**spontaneously**" is to be **in a way that is unplanned or impulsive**, without any prior thought.

**What it really means**: "**Spontaneously**" is an adverb used to describe something that is done as a result of a sudden impulse and without premeditation. It suggests that a new thing is happening without any planning. For example, a new thing can **spontaneously** happen.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is done as a result of a sudden impulse and without premeditation.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adverb)** "**spontaneously** happen," "**spontaneously** decide," "**spontaneously** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He **spontaneously** decided to go on a trip, so he is very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the problems that **spontaneously** happen."
            * "The new law is designed to address the problems that **spontaneously** happen."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the problems that **spontaneously** happen."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **spontaneously** do a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the problems that **spontaneously** happen."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the problems that **spontaneously** happen."

**Synonyms**: Impulsively, unplanned, naturally, on the spur of the moment, instinctively.

**Opposite words**: Deliberately, intentionally, planned, premeditated, consciously.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *sponte* (of one's own accord).



.. _treatment:

================================================================================
Treatment
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈtriːtmənt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The manner in which one deals with or behaves toward a person or thing.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**treatment**" is the **way someone acts toward a person or thing**, or a method used to cure an illness.

**What it really means**: "**Treatment**" is a noun that refers to the manner in which one deals with or behaves toward a person or thing. It suggests that a new person is dealing with a new person or thing. For example, a new thing can have a new **treatment**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the manner in which one deals with or behaves toward a person or thing.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **treatment**," "a good **treatment**," "a medical **treatment**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He gave me a good **treatment**, so I am very happy."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **treatment** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **treatment** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **treatment** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **treatment** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **treatment** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **treatment** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Handling, management, cure, therapy, care.

**Opposite words**: Neglect, abuse, mistreatment, disregard, harm.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *traitier* (to handle, to deal with).



.. _somatic:

================================================================================
Somatic
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/səʊˈmætɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Relating to the body, especially as distinct from the mind.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**somatic**" is to be **of the body**, or physical.

**What it really means**: "**Somatic**" is an adjective used to describe something that is related to the body, especially as distinct from the mind. It suggests that a new thing is related to the body. For example, a new thing can be a **somatic** problem.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is related to the body, especially as distinct from the mind.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**somatic** symptom," "**somatic** pain," "**somatic** new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a new **somatic** symptom, so I need to go to the doctor."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **somatic** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **somatic** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **somatic** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **somatic** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **somatic** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **somatic** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Bodily, physical, corporeal, corporal, organic.

**Opposite words**: Mental, psychological, spiritual, cerebral.

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *sōma* (body).



.. _therapy:

================================================================================
Therapy
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈθɛrəpi/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: Treatment intended to relieve or heal a disorder.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**therapy**" is **treatment for a physical or mental disorder**.

**What it really means**: "**Therapy**" is a noun that refers to treatment intended to relieve or heal a disorder. It suggests that a new person is getting a new treatment. For example, a new person can have a new **therapy**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to treatment intended to relieve or heal a disorder.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **therapy**," "a lot of **therapy**," "a physical **therapy**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to get a new **therapy**, so I am going to the doctor."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **therapy** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **therapy** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **therapy** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **therapy** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **therapy** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **therapy** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Treatment, cure, remedy, healing, rehabilitation.

**Opposite words**: Disease, illness, disorder, affliction, sickness.

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *therapeia* (healing).



.. _chronic:

================================================================================
Chronic
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkrɒnɪk/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: (Of a problem, especially a disease) persisting for a long time or constantly recurring.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**chronic**" is to be **long-lasting or recurring**.

**What it really means**: "**Chronic**" is an adjective used to describe something that is persisting for a long time or constantly recurring. It suggests that a new thing is a long-lasting problem. For example, a new thing can be a **chronic** problem.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is persisting for a long time or constantly recurring.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**chronic** pain," "**chronic** illness," "**chronic** new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a new **chronic** pain, so I need to go to the doctor."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **chronic** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **chronic** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **chronic** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **chronic** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **chronic** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **chronic** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Persistent, lasting, constant, recurrent, long-standing.

**Opposite words**: Acute, temporary, brief, fleeting, short-term.

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *khronos* (time).



.. _symptom:

================================================================================
Symptom
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈsɪmptəm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A physical or mental feature which is regarded as indicating a condition of disease.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**symptom**" is an **indication or sign of a problem**, typically a medical one.

**What it really means**: "**Symptom**" is a noun that refers to a physical or mental feature which is regarded as indicating a condition of disease. It suggests that a new thing is a sign of a new problem. For example, a new thing can be a new **symptom**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a physical or mental feature which is regarded as indicating a condition of disease.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **symptom**," "a major **symptom**," "a lot of **symptoms**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have a new **symptom**, so I need to go to the doctor."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **symptom** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **symptom** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **symptom** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **symptom** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **symptom** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **symptom** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Sign, indication, manifestation, signal, warning.

**Opposite words**: Cure, solution, remedy, relief, non-symptom.

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *symptoma* (a happening, a casualty).



.. _neuroscience:

================================================================================
Neuroscience
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌnjʊərəʊˈsaɪəns/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The study of the brain and the nervous system.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**neuroscience**" is the **scientific study of the nervous system**, particularly the brain.

**What it really means**: "**Neuroscience**" is a noun that refers to the study of the brain and the nervous system. It suggests that a new person is studying a new thing. For example, a new person can study **neuroscience**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the study of the brain and the nervous system.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **neuroscience**," "a lot of **neuroscience**," "a new **neuroscience** study."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am studying **neuroscience**, so I am learning a lot about the brain."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **neuroscience** of a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **neuroscience** of a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **neuroscience** of a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's **neuroscience** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **neuroscience** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **neuroscience** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Brain science, neurology, cognitive science, neurobiology.

**Opposite words**: (No direct antonyms, as it is a field of study).

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *neuron* (nerve) and Latin *scientia* (knowledge).



.. _anticipatory:

================================================================================
Anticipatory
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ænˌtɪsɪˈpeɪtəri/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Characterized by or arousing anticipation.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**anticipatory**" is to be **in a state of expectation or preparation** for a future event.

**What it really means**: "**Anticipatory**" is an adjective used to describe something that is characterized by or arousing anticipation. It suggests that a new person is getting ready for a new thing. For example, a new thing can be an **anticipatory** problem.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is characterized by or arousing anticipation.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "**anticipatory** grief," "**anticipatory** new thing," "**anticipatory** feeling."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I have an **anticipatory** feeling about the new thing, so I am excited."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **anticipatory** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **anticipatory** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **anticipatory** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **anticipatory** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **anticipatory** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **anticipatory** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Expectant, predictive, preparatory, prospective, waiting.

**Opposite words**: Unanticipated, spontaneous, surprising, unprepared, reactive.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *anticipare* (to take before).



.. _renown:

================================================================================
Renown
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/rɪˈnaʊn/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being known and admired by many people for a particular skill or achievement.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**renown**" is **widespread fame and honor**, often for a specific accomplishment.

**What it really means**: "**Renown**" is a noun that refers to the state of being known and admired by many people for a particular skill or achievement. It suggests that a new person is famous. For example, a new person can have a new **renown**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the state of being known and admired by many people for a particular skill or achievement.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **renown**," "world-famous **renown**," "a lot of **renown**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He has a lot of **renown**, so he is very famous."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **renown** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **renown** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **renown** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **renown** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **renown** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **renown** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Fame, celebrity, distinction, reputation, acclaim.

**Opposite words**: Anonymity, obscurity, disgrace, dishonor, infamy.

**Where it comes from**: From Old French *renom* (fame).



.. _concert:

================================================================================
Concert
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˈkɒnsərt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: A2
* **Word Type**: *Noun*
* **Simple Meaning**: A musical performance given in public, typically by several performers or by a choir or orchestra.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**concert**" is a **public musical performance**.

**What it really means**: "**Concert**" is a noun that refers to a musical performance given in public, typically by several performers or by a choir or orchestra. It suggests that a new person is going to a new musical performance. For example, a new person can go to a new **concert**.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a musical performance given in public.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Noun)** "a new **concert**," "a live **concert**," "a rock **concert**."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I am going to a new **concert**, so I am very excited."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **concert** of a new group."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **concert** of a new group."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **concert** of a new group."
            * "The study examines how a person's **concert** can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **concert** of a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **concert** of a new system."

**Synonyms**: Show, performance, gig, recital, live music.

**Opposite words**: (No direct antonyms, as it is a type of event).

**Where it comes from**: From Italian *concerto* (agreement, harmony).



.. _hyperactive:

================================================================================
Hyperactive
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/ˌhaɪpərˈæktɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Abnormally or excessively active.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**hyperactive**" is to be **unusually or excessively active**, often in a way that is disruptive or uncontrolled.

**What it really means**: "**Hyperactive**" is an adjective used to describe something that is abnormally or excessively active. It suggests that a new person is very active. For example, a new person can be very **hyperactive**.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is abnormally or excessively active.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Adjective)** "a **hyperactive** person," "a **hyperactive** new thing," "**hyperactive** a new thing."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "He is a very **hyperactive** person, so I need to calm him down."
            * "The new policy is designed to address the **hyperactive** problems in the country."
            * "The new law is designed to address the **hyperactive** problems in the country."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to address the **hyperactive** problems in the country."
            * "The study examines how a person's **hyperactive** ideas can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to address the **hyperactive** problems in the country."
            * "The new technology is designed to address the **hyperactive** problems in the new system."

**Synonyms**: Overactive, restless, energetic, frenetic, jumpy.

**Opposite words**: Hypoactive, inactive, calm, subdued, lethargic.

**Where it comes from**: From Greek *hyper-* (over) and Latin *activus* (active).



.. _reframe:

================================================================================
Reframe
================================================================================

* **Pronunciation**: :code:`/riːˈfreɪm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb*
* **Simple Meaning**: To change the way something is expressed or viewed.

**Underlying Meaning / Core Meaning**: The core meaning of "**reframe**" is to **change the conceptual structure of something**, or to look at it from a different perspective.

**What it really means**: To "**reframe**" means to change the way something is expressed or viewed. It is the act of a new person changing the way a new thing is seen. For example, a new person can **reframe** a new thing.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the act of changing the way something is expressed or viewed.
    * **Common phrases**:
        * **(Verb)** "**reframe** a new thing," "**reframe** a new problem," "**reframe** a new idea."
    * **Examples**:
        * **Daily Use**:
            * "I need to **reframe** the new thing, so it will be better."
            * "The new policy is designed to **reframe** a new thing."
            * "The new law is designed to **reframe** a new thing."
        * **Formal/IELTS Use**:
            * "The report notes that the new policy is designed to **reframe** a new thing."
            * "The study examines how a person's ability to **reframe** a new idea can affect their creativity."
            * "The document highlights the importance of having a clear and consistent plan to **reframe** a new law."
            * "The new technology is designed to **reframe** a new system."

**Synonyms**: Rephrase, restructure, reinterpret, reconceptualize, rethink.

**Opposite words**: Maintain, preserve, keep, retain, stabilize.

**Where it comes from**: From Latin *re-* (again) and Old French *framer* (to make).



