===========================================================================================================
2025/02/18
===========================================================================================================

.. _solitude:

Solitude
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈsɒl.ɪ.tjuːd/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The state of being alone, often in a peaceful or enjoyable way.

**What it really means**: An "solitude" is the condition of being alone or isolated, typically in a quiet, peaceful environment. It often implies a chosen state for reflection or enjoyment, rather than loneliness.

**When to use it**: Use it when describing a state of being alone, often associated with peace, personal reflection, or the absence of company, usually by choice.
    * **Common phrases**: "seek solitude," "enjoy solitude," "in solitude," "solitude and reflection," "solitude of the countryside."
    * **Examples**:
        * "After a busy week, she enjoys the **solitude** of her cabin in the woods."
        * "**Solitude** can help you reflect and gain clarity of mind."
        * "He found comfort in **solitude** during his long hikes in the mountains."
        * "She craves **solitude** to recharge after being surrounded by people all day."
        * "Many writers seek **solitude** in order to concentrate on their work."

* **Synonyms**: Isolation, seclusion, aloneness, privacy.
* **Opposite words**: Companionship, society, crowd, togetherness.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *solitudo* (loneliness, solitude).

.. _overwhelm:

Overwhelm
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˌoʊvərˈwɛlm/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: To affect someone strongly, to overpower, or to flood with something.

**What it really means**: To "overwhelm" means to cause someone to feel a sudden, strong emotional or mental impact that is too much to handle. It can also mean to defeat or overpower something completely, or to completely cover or flood with something.

**When to use it**: Use it when describing a situation where someone is deeply affected by emotions, responsibilities, or circumstances that feel unmanageable, or when one force completely dominates another.
    * **Common phrases**: "overwhelm with emotions," "overwhelmed by work."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The beauty of the sunset **overwhelmed** her, and she couldn’t hold back her tears."
        * "I feel **overwhelmed** with all the work I have to do before the deadline."
        * "The army **overwhelmed** the enemy forces with a surprise attack."
        * "When she heard the good news, she was **overwhelmed** with joy."
        * "The floodwaters **overwhelmed** the small town, forcing people to evacuate."

* **Synonyms**: Overpower, overload, crush, engulf.
* **Opposite words**: Underwhelm, calm, support, aid.
* **Where it comes from**: Old English *oferwhelman* (to turn over, to submerge).

.. _overwhelming:

Overwhelming
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˌoʊvərˈwɛlmɪŋ/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Extremely strong, intense, or hard to deal with.

**What it really means**: Something that is "overwhelming" is so powerful or intense that it is difficult to cope with, manage, or resist. It describes a feeling, amount, or force that is too great to be overcome.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that is extremely powerful, intense, or so vast in quantity or effect that it feels unmanageable.
    * **Common phrases**: "overwhelming majority," "overwhelming success," "overwhelming emotions," "overwhelming evidence," "overwhelming pressure."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The **overwhelming** love and support from her family helped her through tough times."
        * "The heat in the desert was **overwhelming**, making it hard to breathe."
        * "He faced an **overwhelming** amount of work before the deadline."
        * "The evidence against the suspect was **overwhelming**, leading to a quick verdict."
        * "Winning the championship was an **overwhelming** experience for the young athlete."

* **Synonyms**: Intense, powerful, massive, uncontrollable, immense.
* **Opposite words**: Manageable, minor, negligible, faint.
* **Where it comes from**: From the verb "overwhelm."

.. _crave:

Crave
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /kreɪv/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: To have a strong desire for something.

**What it really means**: To "crave" means to feel an intense and strong longing or desire for something, often a basic need like food, or an emotional need like attention. It suggests a deep, often urgent, wanting.

**When to use it**: Use it when describing a powerful and often uncontrollable desire for something, whether it's a physical need, an emotional longing, or an experiential want.
    * **Common phrases**: "crave for something," "crave attention," "crave excitement," "crave solitude," "crave love and affection."
    * **Examples**:
        * "After working all day, I **crave** a cup of hot tea."
        * "She **craved** adventure, so she decided to travel solo."
        * "Many people **crave** recognition for their hard work."
        * "He **craves** chocolate whenever he feels stressed."
        * "The lonely child **craved** attention from his parents."

* **Synonyms**: Desire, yearn, long for, hunger for, hanker for.
* **Opposite words**: Dislike, reject, abhor, despise.
* **Where it comes from**: Old English *crafian* (to ask, demand).

.. _hike:

Hike
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /haɪk/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable) & *Verb* (intransitive/transitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: A long walk, especially in nature, or a sudden increase in something.

**What it really means**: As a noun, a "hike" is primarily a long walk, usually for pleasure or exercise in natural settings like mountains or countryside. As a verb, it means to go on such a walk. In a business or economic context, "hike" (both noun and verb) refers to a sharp increase, such as in prices, taxes, or wages.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe recreational long walks in nature or to refer to a significant increase in prices or similar values.
    * **Common phrases**: "go for a hike," "hike up a mountain," "price hike," "hike in wages," "hike the rent."
    * **Examples**:
        * "We decided to **hike** through the national park to enjoy the scenery."
        * "She loves to go on a **hike** every weekend to stay fit."
        * "The sudden **hike** in rent forced many tenants to move out."
        * "They **hiked** their prices after the product became popular."
        * "It took them five hours to **hike** up the steep hill, but the view was worth it."

* **Synonyms**: Journey, trek, climb, stroll, increase, raise, elevate.
* **Opposite words**: Decrease, drop, descend, lower, stroll (as an opposite to strenuous hike).
* **Where it comes from**: Origin uncertain, possibly from Old High German *houcken* (to squat), evolving to mean lifting or pulling up.

.. _premium:

Premium
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˈpriː.mi.əm/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable/uncountable) & *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Something of high quality or an extra cost for additional benefits.

**What it really means**: "Premium" refers to an additional sum of money paid for something (like insurance or a service) to receive a benefit, or it describes something of superior quality and often higher price. It implies exclusivity, higher value, or enhanced features compared to standard options.

**When to use it**: Use it to indicate something of higher quality, a superior service, or an extra charge for added value, especially in contexts like insurance, products, or services.
    * **Common phrases**: "pay a premium," "premium quality," "insurance premium," "premium service," "at a premium."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Many people are willing to pay a **premium** for organic food."
        * "The company offers **premium** customer support for VIP members."
        * "Health insurance **premiums** have increased this year."
        * "This car model comes with **premium** leather seats and a high-end sound system."
        * "There is a **premium** on fresh seafood because of the high demand."

* **Synonyms**: Luxury, exclusive, elite, high-end, superior, extra cost, surcharge.
* **Opposite words**: Standard, basic, low-quality, discount.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *praemium* (reward, prize, profit).

.. _organic:

Organic
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ɔːrˈɡæn.ɪk/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* & *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: Relating to natural growth, living matter, or chemical-free products.

**What it really means**: "Organic" primarily refers to food or farming methods that do not use artificial chemicals, pesticides, or genetically modified organisms. It also describes anything derived from living matter, or a process that develops naturally and without external force. In chemistry, it refers to compounds containing carbon.

**When to use it**: Use it for food products grown without synthetic chemicals, for things derived from living organisms, or to describe natural, unforced development.
    * **Common phrases**: "organic food," "organic farming," "organic growth," "organic matter," "organic lifestyle."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Many consumers prefer **organic** food because it is free from pesticides."
        * "The scientist studied **organic** matter found in ancient fossils."
        * "Their friendship developed in an **organic** way, without any pressure."
        * "**Organic** chemistry focuses on carbon-based molecules."
        * "The demand for **organic** skincare products has increased significantly."

* **Synonyms**: Natural, sustainable, pure, eco-friendly, biological, unforced.
* **Opposite words**: Inorganic, artificial, synthetic, chemical, forced.
* **Where it comes from**: Greek *organikos* (pertaining to an organ), via Latin *organicus*.

.. _aesthetic:

Aesthetic
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /æsˈθɛtɪk/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* & *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: Relating to beauty or the appreciation of beauty.

**What it really means**: "Aesthetic" refers to the principles, appreciation, or study of beauty and artistic taste. As an adjective, it describes something concerned with beauty or how things look. As a noun, it can refer to a particular style or set of principles guiding an artistic or design approach.

**When to use it**: Use it when discussing beauty, art, design, or the sensory experience of appreciating something visually pleasing or artful.
    * **Common phrases**: "aesthetic appeal," "aesthetic value," "aesthetic sense," "aesthetic pleasure," "aesthetic quality."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The **aesthetic** design of the building made it a popular tourist spot."
        * "The artist’s work has a minimalist **aesthetic** that emphasizes simplicity."
        * "Many modern designs focus on clean lines and **aesthetic** minimalism."
        * "The **aesthetic** of the room was complemented by neutral tones and soft lighting."
        * "She follows a bohemian **aesthetic** when decorating her home."

* **Synonyms**: Artistic, beautiful, elegant, stylish, visual, tasteful.
* **Opposite words**: Unaesthetic, ugly, displeasing, functional (in contrast to beauty).
* **Where it comes from**: Greek *aisthetikos* (pertaining to sense perception).

.. _captivate:

Captivate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˈkæp.tɪ.veɪt/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: To attract and hold someone's attention by being interesting, charming, or beautiful.

**What it really means**: To "captivate" means to completely capture and hold the attention, admiration, or interest of someone, often through charm, beauty, or fascinating qualities. It implies that the person is spellbound or mesmerized.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe something that completely draws in and holds a person's attention, making them feel enchanted or deeply interested.
    * **Common phrases**: "captivate the imagination," "be captivated by," "captivate the heart."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The beauty of the landscape **captivated** all the visitors."
        * "His captivating speech left a lasting impression on everyone."
        * "The documentary about wildlife **captivated** millions of viewers."
        * "The painting's colors and details **captivated** the art critics."
        * "She was **captivated** by the charming melody of the violin."

* **Synonyms**: Enchant, mesmerize, fascinate, attract, charm, enthrall.
* **Opposite words**: Repel, bore, disinterest, alienate.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *captivare* (to take captive).

.. _vintage:

Vintage
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˈvɪn.tɪdʒ/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Adjective* & *Noun* (countable/uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: Related to a period of time, often indicating something of high quality or classic in nature, typically from the past.

**What it really means**: "Vintage" refers to items, particularly wine, clothing, or cars, that are from a past era and are of high quality, enduring design, or significant cultural value. It implies a classic appeal and often becomes more valuable with age. As a noun, it can also refer to the year or place in which wine, especially wine of high quality, was produced.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe objects, clothing, or wines that are from an earlier period, often implying quality, classic style, or a nostalgic appeal.
    * **Common phrases**: "vintage car," "vintage clothing," "vintage wine," "vintage style."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She owns a **vintage** camera collection from the 1950s."
        * "The winery is known for its excellent **vintage** wines."
        * "The designer wore a **vintage** dress from the 1940s."
        * "He found a rare **vintage** watch at the flea market."
        * "The house was filled with **vintage** furniture that gave it a timeless charm."

* **Synonyms**: Antique, classic, retro, timeless, old-fashioned (sometimes, depending on context), period.
* **Opposite words**: Modern, contemporary, new, cutting-edge, futuristic.
* **Where it comes from**: Old French *vendage* (wine harvest), from Latin *vindemia*.

.. _advocate:

Advocate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˈæd.və.keɪt/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive) & *Noun* (countable)
* **Simple Meaning**: To support or recommend publicly; a person who supports a cause or individual.

**What it really means**: As a verb, to "advocate" means to publicly recommend or support a particular cause, policy, or person. As a noun, an "advocate" is a person who argues for or supports a cause, policy, or another individual, especially in a legal context (like a lawyer).

**When to use it**: Use it when someone is actively and publicly supporting or recommending something, or when referring to a person who champions a particular cause or individual.
    * **Common phrases**: "advocate for," "advocate of," "advocate justice," "advocate change," "legal advocate."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The politician **advocates** for improved healthcare access."
        * "He was a strong **advocate** of women's rights throughout his life."
        * "The organization **advocates** for animal welfare worldwide."
        * "As a lawyer, she **advocates** for justice on behalf of the underprivileged."
        * "The teacher **advocates** for creative learning methods in the classroom."

* **Synonyms**: Support, champion, defend, proponent, promoter, spokesperson.
* **Opposite words**: Opponent, critic, hinder, obstruct, oppose.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *advocare* (to call to one's aid).

.. _adopt:

Adopt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /əˈdɒpt/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: To take something or someone as one's own; to accept or start using a new idea, method, or policy.

**What it really means**: To "adopt" primarily means to legally take another person's child and raise it as one's own, or to take an animal from a shelter. It also means to formally accept and begin to use a new method, idea, or policy, or to take on a particular quality or behavior.

**When to use it**: Use it when someone or a group takes on something new—a child, a pet, an idea, a method, or a behavior—as their own.
    * **Common phrases**: "adopt a policy," "adopt an approach," "adopt a child/pet," "adopt a new way of thinking," "adopt a strategy."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The family decided to **adopt** a dog from the shelter."
        * "The company plans to **adopt** more sustainable practices in the coming year."
        * "They **adopted** a new strategy to improve their sales performance."
        * "Many countries are beginning to **adopt** renewable energy sources."
        * "She **adopted** a more positive attitude after the motivational seminar."

* **Synonyms**: Embrace, accept, assume, implement, take on, choose.
* **Opposite words**: Reject, abandon, discard, disown, renounce.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *adoptare* (to choose for oneself, take by choice).

.. _adapt:

Adapt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /əˈdæpt/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive/intransitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: To change or adjust to new conditions, situations, or environments.

**What it really means**: To "adapt" means to make something suitable for a new use or situation, or to adjust oneself to new conditions. It involves modifying existing characteristics or behaviors to fit a changed environment or circumstance, often for survival or improved functionality.

**When to use it**: Use it when discussing changes or adjustments made by individuals, organisms, or systems to thrive or function effectively in new or altered environments.
    * **Common phrases**: "adapt to," "adapt for," "adapt oneself to," "adapt something to," "fail to adapt."
    * **Examples**:
        * "Animals in the wild can **adapt** to changing climates."
        * "The film was **adapted** from a bestselling novel."
        * "It took some time for her to **adapt** to the new job role."
        * "The software was **adapted** to meet the specific needs of the company."
        * "The company had to **adapt** its business model after the pandemic."

* **Synonyms**: Adjust, modify, conform, evolve, customize, acclimate.
* **Opposite words**: Resist, remain unchanged, fail to adjust.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *adaptare* (to fit to, adjust).

.. _adolescent:

Adolescent
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˌædəˈlɛsənt/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable) & *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: A young person, typically between the ages of 13 and 19; or, describing someone in the process of developing from a child into an adult.

**What it really means**: An "adolescent" is a young person undergoing the developmental period of adolescence, typically between puberty and adulthood (roughly ages 13-19). This stage involves significant physical, emotional, and psychological changes as they transition from childhood to adult roles. As an adjective, it describes characteristics or behaviors typical of this age group.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to young people in their teenage years, or to describe behaviors, stages, or issues associated with this transitional period of life.
    * **Common phrases**: "adolescent years," "adolescent behavior," "adolescent development," "adolescent problems," "adolescent stage."
    * **Examples**:
        * "**Adolescents** often struggle with identity issues and peer pressure."
        * "The **adolescent** years can be a time of significant emotional and physical changes."
        * "She is an **adolescent** who has shown remarkable maturity for her age."
        * "The school offers counseling programs to help **adolescents** cope with academic and social pressures."
        * "**Adolescent** behavior can sometimes be misunderstood as rebelliousness."

* **Synonyms**: Teenager, youth, juvenile.
* **Opposite words**: Child, adult, infant.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *adolescere* (to grow up, to mature).

.. _admission:

Admission
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ədˈmɪʃən/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable/uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The act of allowing someone to enter a place, institution, or organization, or the process of being accepted into something.

**What it really means**: "Admission" refers to the process or right of entering a place (like a museum or university) or joining an organization. It can also mean a confession or acknowledgment of a fact or truth, especially something that might be considered unfavorable. It also refers to the fee paid for entry.

**When to use it**: Use it when discussing entry rights or permission (e.g., to a school, event, or building), or when referring to the act of confessing or acknowledging something.
    * **Common phrases**: "admission fee," "gain admission," "admission of guilt," "open admission," "admission test."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The **admission** process for the university is very competitive."
        * "The **admission** ticket grants you access to all areas of the park."
        * "She made an **admission** that she had been late to the meeting."
        * "After his **admission** to the hospital, he was treated immediately."
        * "The **admission** of mistakes is an important step toward improvement."

* **Synonyms**: Entry, access, confession, acceptance, entry fee, permit.
* **Opposite words**: Denial, exclusion, rejection, expulsion, refusal.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *admissio* (a letting in).

.. _intuition:

Intuition
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˌɪntuˈɪʃən/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* **Simple Meaning**: The ability to understand or know something immediately, without conscious reasoning.

**What it really means**: "Intuition" is the capacity to understand or know something instinctively, without needing logical thought, conscious reasoning, or direct evidence. It often manifests as a "gut feeling" or a sudden insight that provides a sense of what is right or true.

**When to use it**: Use it when describing immediate, non-analytical understanding, gut feelings, or instincts that guide decisions or perceptions.
    * **Common phrases**: "follow your intuition," "intuitive thinking," "strong intuition," "rely on intuition," "develop your intuition."
    * **Examples**:
        * "She had an **intuition** that the stranger was not to be trusted."
        * "His **intuition** helped him make the right decision in a difficult situation."
        * "Good detectives rely on both evidence and **intuition** to solve cases."
        * "Even though she had no proof, her **intuition** told her she was making the right career choice."
        * "Some people believe that **intuition** is just subconscious reasoning working in the background."

* **Synonyms**: Instinct, perception, insight, gut feeling, premonition, hunch.
* **Opposite words**: Reason, logic, analysis, deduction, evidence.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *intuitio* (a looking at, a direct apprehension).

.. _stifle:

Stifle
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˈstaɪ.fəl/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive/intransitive)
* **Simple Meaning**: To suppress, restrain, or prevent something from happening or being expressed.

**What it really means**: To "stifle" means to prevent an action, emotion, or development from occurring or being expressed, often by holding it back or suppressing it. It can also refer to making someone unable to breathe easily due to lack of air, heat, or strong pressure, effectively suffocating them.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of suppressing emotions or actions, hindering growth or development, or making it difficult for someone to breathe due to oppressive conditions.
    * **Common phrases**: "stifle creativity," "stifle a yawn," "stifle innovation," "feel stifled," "stifle a laugh."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The government’s policies should encourage creativity, not **stifle** it."
        * "He had to **stifle** a yawn during the long lecture."
        * "The lack of fresh air in the small room made her feel **stifled**."
        * "Parents should not **stifle** their children's curiosity."
        * "The protesters' voices were **stifled** by strict censorship laws."

* **Synonyms**: Suppress, restrain, suffocate, inhibit, choke, smother.
* **Opposite words**: Encourage, promote, release, allow, foster, liberate.
* **Where it comes from**: Old French *estouffer* (to choke, smother).

.. _stifling:

Stifling
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: /ˈstaɪ.flɪŋ/
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Adjective*
* **Simple Meaning**: Extremely hot, oppressive, or restrictive, making it difficult to breathe or function.

**What it really means**: "Stifling" describes a condition that is extremely hot and makes breathing difficult, or an atmosphere, situation, or set of rules that suppresses freedom, creativity, or personal expression, causing a feeling of being trapped or oppressed.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe oppressive heat, or an environment (physical or metaphorical) that restricts freedom, growth, or comfort.
    * **Common phrases**: "stifling heat," "stifling atmosphere," "stifling restrictions," "stifling pressure," "stifling creativity."
    * **Examples**:
        * "The air in the room was **stifling**, making it hard to breathe."
        * "The strict discipline at the school felt **stifling** to many students."
        * "After hours in the crowded subway, she needed to escape the **stifling** atmosphere."
        * "The lack of creativity in his job was becoming **stifling** for him."
        * "The humidity was so **stifling** that even walking felt exhausting."

* **Synonyms**: Suffocating, oppressive, confining, overbearing, restrictive, suffocatingly hot.
* **Opposite words**: Liberating, refreshing, open, encouraging, free.
* **Where it comes from**: From the verb "stifle."

