====================================================================
2025/02/20
====================================================================


.. _dredge:

Dredge
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/drɛdʒ/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To bring up something from the depths (literally or figuratively), to coat food, or to recall past events. [cite: 730]

**What it really means**: To "dredge" literally means to clear out the bottom of a body of water (like a river or harbor) by removing mud, sand, or debris. Figuratively, it means to bring up or reveal something unpleasant or forgotten from the past, often by force or effort. It can also mean to coat food with a dry ingredient like flour or sugar.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the act of physically removing material from a waterbed, unearthing unpleasant past events, or coating food with a dry powder.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "dredge up the past," [cite: 733] [cite_start]"dredge the river." [cite: 733]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The workers **dredged** the river to remove debris." [cite: 731]
        * [cite_start]"She always **dredges** up past mistakes." [cite: 731]
        * [cite_start]"He **dredged** the fish in flour before frying." [cite: 732]
        * [cite_start]"The investigation **dredged** up forgotten scandals." [cite: 732]
        * [cite_start]"They used machines to **dredge** the harbor." [cite: 733]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Excavate, Unearth, Recall, [cite: 733] Dig up, Rake over.
* **Opposite words**: Bury, conceal, forget, hide.
* **Where it comes from**: Old English *drecge* (a drag-net).

.. _conciliation:

Conciliation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/kənˌsɪliˈeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: The process of stopping someone from being angry or resolving disputes peacefully. [cite: 733]

**What it really means**: "Conciliation" is the act of making a hostile person or group more friendly or agreeable, often by mediating a dispute to achieve a peaceful resolution. It focuses on easing tensions and finding common ground to prevent or end conflict.

**When to use it**: Use it when referring to efforts or processes aimed at settling disagreements, calming angry parties, or restoring harmony.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "seek conciliation," [cite: 737] [cite_start]"efforts at conciliation." [cite: 737]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The manager’s **conciliation** efforts calmed the team." [cite: 734]
        * [cite_start]"A skilled diplomat excels at **conciliation**." [cite: 734]
        * [cite_start]"She offered an apology as a form of **conciliation**." [cite: 735]
        * [cite_start]"The lawyer suggested **conciliation** before going to court." [cite: 735]
        * [cite_start]"His speech was meant to encourage **conciliation** among the parties." [cite: 736]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Mediation, Pacification, Reconciliation, [cite: 737] appeasement, arbitration.
* **Opposite words**: Provocation, escalation, conflict, antagonism.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *conciliatio* (a uniting, reconciling).

.. _reconciliation:

Reconciliation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˌrɛkənˌsɪliˈeɪʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: The act of restoring friendly relations after conflict. [cite: 737]

**What it really means**: "Reconciliation" is the process of resolving differences and re-establishing friendly relations, especially after a period of estrangement or conflict. It involves finding a way to coexist peacefully or to come to terms with a difficult past. It can also refer to the process of making two sets of figures or accounts consistent.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe the restoration of harmony or friendly relations between people or groups who have been in conflict, or to align financial accounts.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "path to reconciliation," [cite: 740] [cite_start]"national reconciliation." [cite: 740]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The peace treaty marked the beginning of **reconciliation**." [cite: 738]
        * [cite_start]"They had a long conversation to achieve **reconciliation**." [cite: 738]
        * [cite_start]"Financial **reconciliation** must be done before the audit." [cite: 739]
        * [cite_start]"The movie portrays the emotional **reconciliation** between father and son." [cite: 739]
        * [cite_start]"She sought **reconciliation** with her old friend." [cite: 740]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Settlement, Agreement, Reunion, [cite: 740] harmony, rapprochement.
* **Opposite words**: Estrangement, conflict, alienation, dispute.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *reconciliatio* (a re-establishing, renewal).

.. _contextualize:

Contextualize
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/kənˈtɛkstʃuəlaɪz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To place something in its proper context for better understanding. [cite: 740]

**What it really means**: To "contextualize" means to put an event, idea, or statement into its surrounding circumstances or background to provide clarity and a fuller understanding. It involves considering the environment, history, or culture in which something exists or occurs to interpret its meaning accurately.

**When to use it**: Use it when explaining the importance of understanding background information or surrounding circumstances to correctly interpret something.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "contextualize historical events," [cite: 744] [cite_start]"contextualize a statement." [cite: 744]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The historian **contextualized** the events of the war." [cite: 741]
        * [cite_start]"It’s important to **contextualize** statistics before drawing conclusions." [cite: 741]
        * [cite_start]"She failed to **contextualize** his comments, leading to misunderstanding." [cite: 742]
        * [cite_start]"The teacher helps students **contextualize** difficult concepts." [cite: 742]
        * [cite_start]"This study **contextualizes** the impact of technology on modern life." [cite: 743]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Interpret, Frame, Explain, [cite: 744] set in context, relate to.
* **Opposite words**: Isolate, decontextualize, misinterpret.
* **Where it comes from**: From "context" (Latin *contextus* - a joining together, connection).

.. _grapple:

Grapple
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈɡræpəl/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (intransitive) & *Noun* (countable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To struggle with something physically or mentally. [cite: 744]

**What it really means**: As a verb, to "grapple" means to engage in a close fight or struggle without weapons, often by gripping or seizing. Figuratively, it means to wrestle or contend with a difficult problem, challenge, or concept mentally. As a noun, it refers to an act of grappling or a hooked implement used for grasping.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe intense physical struggle or the mental effort required to deal with a difficult problem or challenge.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "grapple with a problem," [cite: 747] [cite_start]"grapple with emotions." [cite: 747]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The police officer **grappled** with the suspect." [cite: 745]
        * [cite_start]"She is **grappling** with a difficult decision." [cite: 745]
        * [cite_start]"Scientists **grapple** with climate change solutions." [cite: 746]
        * [cite_start]"The nation **grapples** with economic instability." [cite: 746]
        * [cite_start]"He **grappled** with his fears and overcame them." [cite: 747]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Wrestle, Struggle, Contend, [cite: 747] confront, combat, deal with.
* **Opposite words**: Yield, surrender, avoid, evade.
* **Where it comes from**: Old French *grappil* (a small hook).

.. _ruminate:

Ruminate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈruːmɪneɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (intransitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To deeply think or reflect on something. [cite: 747]

**What it really means**: To "ruminate" means to think deeply and at length about something, often in a contemplative or worried way. It implies a thorough and prolonged process of reflection, often revisiting the same thoughts repeatedly. In zoology, it means for an animal to chew its cud.

**When to use it**: Use it when describing the act of prolonged and deep thought or contemplation about a particular subject, especially something that is a source of worry or ongoing reflection.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "ruminate on past events," [cite: 750] [cite_start]"ruminate over decisions." [cite: 750]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"He spent the evening **ruminating** on his future." [cite: 748]
        * [cite_start]"She **ruminates** about past mistakes too much." [cite: 748]
        * [cite_start]"Philosophers often **ruminate** on the meaning of life." [cite: 749]
        * [cite_start]"He sat in silence, **ruminating** on the day’s events." [cite: 749]
        * [cite_start]"She likes to **ruminate** before making big decisions." [cite: 750]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Contemplate, Ponder, Reflect, [cite: 750] meditate, muse, deliberate.
* **Opposite words**: Disregard, forget, ignore, dismiss.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *ruminari* (to chew over again, ponder).

.. _discretion:

Discretion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/dɪˈskrɛʃən/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: C1
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (uncountable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: The freedom to decide what should be done in a given situation. [cite: 750]

**What it really means**: "Discretion" refers to the power or right to decide or act according to one's own judgment. It also means the quality of behaving or speaking in a way that avoids causing offense or revealing private information, demonstrating prudence and carefulness.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to the power of making choices based on one's own judgment, or to the quality of being careful and tactful in order to maintain privacy or avoid offense.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "use discretion wisely," [cite: 754] [cite_start]"at one’s discretion," [cite: 754] "parental discretion."
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The manager has **discretion** over budget allocations." [cite: 751]
        * [cite_start]"He handled the sensitive matter with great **discretion**." [cite: 751]
        * [cite_start]"Parental **discretion** is advised for this movie." [cite: 752]
        * [cite_start]"She used her **discretion** to keep the information private." [cite: 752]
        * [cite_start]"The police officer exercised **discretion** when issuing a warning instead of a fine." [cite: 753]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Judgment, Prudence, [cite: 754] caution, circumspection, choice, option.
* **Opposite words**: Indiscretion, recklessness, compulsion, obligation.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *discretio* (separation, discernment).

.. _alleviate:

Alleviate
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/əˈliːvieɪt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To reduce or relieve pain, suffering, or difficulty. [cite: 754]

**What it really means**: To "alleviate" means to make suffering, deficiency, or a problem less severe or easier to bear. It aims to lighten the burden or lessen the intensity of something negative without necessarily removing it entirely.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe actions taken to make a problem, pain, or difficult situation less severe or more bearable.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "alleviate suffering," [cite: 757] [cite_start]"alleviate financial burden." [cite: 757]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The new medicine will **alleviate** headaches." [cite: 755]
        * [cite_start]"The government is working to **alleviate** poverty." [cite: 755]
        * [cite_start]"A warm bath can **alleviate** stress." [cite: 756]
        * [cite_start]"She took painkillers to **alleviate** the pain." [cite: 756]
        * [cite_start]"Meditation helps **alleviate** anxiety." [cite: 757]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Relieve, Ease, Mitigate, [cite: 757] lessen, reduce, lighten.
* **Opposite words**: Aggravate, worsen, intensify, exacerbate.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *alleviare* (to lighten, lift up).

.. _affirm:

Affirm
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/əˈfɜːrm/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To state something as true or confirm it. [cite: 757]

**What it really means**: To "affirm" means to state positively and strongly that something is true, or to confirm and uphold the validity or truth of something. It often implies a public declaration or a reassurance.

**When to use it**: Use it when someone states a belief or fact with conviction, or confirms a decision or ruling.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "affirm one’s beliefs," [cite: 760] [cite_start]"affirm a decision." [cite: 760]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The leader **affirmed** his commitment to peace." [cite: 758]
        * [cite_start]"She **affirmed** her decision to pursue a new career." [cite: 758]
        * [cite_start]"The court **affirmed** the ruling." [cite: 759]
        * [cite_start]"He **affirmed** that he was telling the truth." [cite: 759]
        * [cite_start]"The teacher **affirmed** the students' hard work." [cite: 760]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Confirm, Assert, [cite: 760] declare, state, validate, ratify.
* **Opposite words**: Deny, contradict, negate, reject.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *affirmare* (to make firm, confirm).

.. _skirt:

Skirt
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/skɜːrt/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive/intransitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To go around the edge of something; [cite: 760] [cite_start]to avoid dealing with something directly. [cite: 761]

**What it really means**: To "skirt" means to pass along or around the border or edge of something, either literally (e.g., a road skirting a lake) or figuratively. Figuratively, it means to avoid dealing with something directly or to circumvent a difficult issue or rule without directly violating it.

**When to use it**: Use it to describe going around the edge of a physical object or place, or to describe avoiding a direct confrontation with a topic, problem, or rule.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "skirt around the problem," [cite: 764] [cite_start]"skirt the law." [cite: 764]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The road **skirts** the edge of the lake." [cite: 761]
        * [cite_start]"He **skirted** the issue instead of addressing it." [cite: 762]
        * [cite_start]"The climbers **skirted** the dangerous path." [cite: 762]
        * [cite_start]"She skillfully **skirted** the controversial topic." [cite: 763]
        * [cite_start]"The bill barely **skirts** legal restrictions." [cite: 763]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Bypass, Evade, Dodge, [cite: 764] circle, avoid, go around.
* **Opposite words**: Confront, face, tackle, directly address.
* **Where it comes from**: Old Norse *skyrta* (shirt), probably referring to the lower edge of clothing.

.. _narrative:

Narrative
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈnærətɪv/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Noun* (countable/uncountable)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: A story or account of events. [cite: 764]

**What it really means**: A "narrative" is a spoken or written account of connected events, forming a story. It can refer to the way a sequence of events is presented or perceived, often implying a particular viewpoint or interpretation that shapes understanding.

**When to use it**: Use it to refer to a story, an account of events, or the way a sequence of events is constructed and presented to convey a particular message or perspective.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "construct a narrative," [cite: 768] [cite_start]"control the narrative." [cite: 768]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"The book presents a powerful **narrative** of survival." [cite: 765]
        * [cite_start]"The politician shaped the **narrative** to favor his policies." [cite: 765]
        * [cite_start]"The movie’s **narrative** is engaging and thought-provoking." [cite: 766]
        * [cite_start]"The historical **narrative** often depends on who writes it." [cite: 766]
        * [cite_start]"He introduced a new **narrative** to change public opinion." [cite: 767]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Story, Account, Perspective, [cite: 768] tale, report, chronicle, storyline.
* **Opposite words**: Disjointed facts, non-story, chaos.
* **Where it comes from**: Latin *narrativus* (pertaining to narration).

.. _jeopardize:

Jeopardize
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Pronunciation**:: `/ˈdʒɛpərdaɪz/`
* **IELTS/CEFR Level**: B2
* **Word Type**: *Verb* (transitive)
* [cite_start]**Simple Meaning**: To put something in danger. [cite: 768]

**What it really means**: To "jeopardize" means to put something or someone into a situation where there is a risk of loss, harm, failure, or destruction. It implies placing something valuable or important in peril due to an action or circumstance.

**When to use it**: Use it when an action or situation creates a risk or threat to the safety, success, or existence of something important.
    * [cite_start]**Common phrases**: "jeopardize success," [cite: 771] [cite_start]"jeopardize safety." [cite: 771]
    * **Examples**:
        * [cite_start]"Drunk driving **jeopardizes** lives." [cite: 769]
        * [cite_start]"His actions **jeopardized** his career." [cite: 769]
        * [cite_start]"Speaking carelessly can **jeopardize** relationships." [cite: 769]
        * [cite_start]"A financial crisis can **jeopardize** business growth." [cite: 770]
        * [cite_start]"Ignoring safety measures **jeopardizes** the project." [cite: 770]

* [cite_start]**Synonyms**: Endanger, Risk, Threaten, [cite: 771] imperil, compromise, hazard.
* **Opposite words**: Safeguard, protect, secure, preserve.
* **Where it comes from**: Old French *jeu parti* (an even game, a divided game), referring to an uncertain outcome.


